Click to copyhttps://apnews.com/55cd27d419a54b64821ae69e178faba2
MEMPHIS, Tenn.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--May 15, 2018--GTx, Inc. (Nasdaq:GTXI) today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2018 and highlighted recent accomplishments and upcoming milestones.
At the Society of Urodynamics, Female Pelvic Medicine, & Urogenital Reconstruction (SUFU) Meeting in March, positive results were presented from the Company's Phase 2 proof-of-concept (POC) clinical trial of enobosarm 3 mg administered orally in post-menopausal women with SUI. Details of the SUFU presentation can be found here and are summarized below: At the end of the 12-week treatment period, all 18 enobosarm-treated women demonstrated clinically meaningful (50 percent or greater) reductions in stress urinary incontinence episodes per day, compared to baseline.The reduction in incontinence episodes was sustained, or durable, well beyond the 12-week treatment period.Additional positive results in a subset of postmenopausal women suggest a dual treatment effect on both SUI and urge incontinence (UI).Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) results showed a statistically significant increase in several important measurements and support the mechanism of action of enobosarm on the pelvic floor.There were no serious adverse events reported and reported adverse events were minimal and included headaches, nausea, fatigue, hot flashes, insomnia, muscle weakness and acne. Mild transient elevations in liver enzymes that were within normal limits were observed, except for one patient with levels greater than 1.5 times the upper limit of normal which returned to normal following her 12-week treatment period. Reductions in total cholesterol, LDL-C, HDL-C and triglycerides were also observed. On May 18, 2018, a podium presentation at the 2018 American Urological Association (AUA) meeting will update results from the Phase 2 POC clinical trial of enobosarm. The Company has an ongoing randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled, Phase 2 trial to assess the efficacy and safety of enobosarm administered orally in post-menopausal women with SUI compared to placebo. More information about the ASTRID (Assessing Enobosarm for Stress Urinary Incontinence Disorder) trial can be found here. In April, the Company completed patient enrollment in the ASTRID trial several months ahead of schedule, enrolling 493 women at over 60 clinical trial centers across the United States. Top-line results are expected early in the fourth quarter of 2018.
As of March 31, 2018, cash and short-term investments were $32.1 million compared to $43.9 million at December 31, 2017. Research and development expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $11.0 million compared to $4.2 million for the same period of 2017. General and administrative expenses for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 were $2.7 million compared to $2.1 million for the same period of 2017. The net loss for the quarter ended March 31, 2018 was $13.6 million compared to a net loss of $6.3 million for the same period in 2017. GTx had approximately 22.5 million shares of common stock outstanding as of March 31, 2018. Additionally, there are warrants outstanding to purchase approximately 5.3 million shares of GTx common stock at an exercise price of $8.50 per share and approximately 3.3 million shares of GTx common stock at an exercise price of $9.02.
In addition to the Phase 2 proof-of-concept clinical trial being presented at AUA, GTx also has a larger, ongoing, placebo-controlled Phase 2 clinical trial evaluating enobosarm in postmenopausal women with SUI. The study, called ASTRID ( A ssessing Enobosarm for Str ess Urinary I ncontinence D isorder), completed enrollment (n=493) recently and is being conducted at over 60 clinical trial centers across the United States. Top-line results are expected early in the fourth quarter of this year. More information about the ASTRID clinical trial can be found here.
This press release contains forward-looking statements based upon GTx's current expectations. Forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, and include, but are not limited to, statements relating to GTx's ongoing clinical development of its selective androgen receptor modulator (SARM) compounds. GTx's actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and uncertainties, which include, without limitation, the risks (i) that the Phase 2 placebo-controlled clinical study being conducted by GTx for the treatment of stress urinary incontinence (SUI) may not be completed on schedule; (ii) that additional clinical development of GTx's SARM compound for the treatment of SUI will be required beyond the ongoing study; and (iii) any future development of SARMs in SUI is contingent on obtaining sufficient additional capital to permit such development, which it may be unable to do. In addition, GTx will continue to need additional funding and may be unable to raise capital when needed, which would force GTx to delay, reduce or eliminate its product candidate development programs and potentially cease operations. GTx's actual results and the timing of events could differ materially from those anticipated in such forward-looking statements as a result of these risks and uncertainties. You should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which apply only as of the date of this press release. GTx's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, contains under the heading, "Risk Factors", a more comprehensive description of these and other risks to which GTx is subject. GTx expressly disclaims any obligation or undertaking to release publicly any updates or revisions to any forward-looking statements contained herein to reflect any change in its expectations with regard thereto or any change in events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
A study of how and why humans, unlike zebras (and other animals), suffer from ongoing stress and the debilitating diseases we suffer as a result.
Cutting edge research on how the painful experiences of our past and our unresolved traumas remain in our physical bodies, leading to ongoing suffering, both mental and physical.

Wear me casual, or dress me up! Super-stretchy, lightweight knit forms this essential tank top with a soft v-neckline, and thick straps all pulled together by a ribbed material.
Depression: Simply wrong: why pills aren't the answer to mental health ills
Our quick fix society combined with pharmaceutical companies' drive for profits have created a situation where we expect all illnesses to submit to a swift and simple course of medication – even depression.
The way advertising sells depression medication is by highlighting its primary cause as a "chemical imbalance" in your brain. Surely, they reason, if we can give you a pill which corrects this imbalance then you're mended, the pain's gone away, you're whiter than white again.
But there are a few of issues with this view of mental illness:
Yes, depression is characterised by a change in brain chemistry, but there's no evidence which shows that the correlation of changes in chemistry confirms the causation of depression.
Although using medication to alter brain chemistry may create a short-term "cure", it fails to address the links which depression share with behaviour, personal history, relationship and thought patterns and emotional health.
Your mental health can be directly influenced by some of the side-effects listed for many forms of anti-depressant medication. Just consider quite how issues such as stomach pains, hallucinations, memory problems, a loss of coordination and tremors could affect your quality of life and whether they're particularly conducive to breaking free from the tougher elements of depressive disorders.
It is, of course, important to understand how the "depressed brain" changes as a way to show how biological factors influence our emotions and vice versa – it reveals how depression isn't a one-way street and how it can be beaten.
But to ignore how psychotherapy can also alter the brain's chemistry as well as tackle lifestyle and emotional issues which contribute to depression is to miss a vital element of our weaponry to fight depression: just as we learn to be depressed because of events in our lives and our brain changes to accommodate living in a depressed manner, so we can learn to break out of depression and our brains will follow suit.
What's more, there's research which points to cognitive behavioural therapy and mindfulness-based cognitive therapy having much longer efficacy than medication, which tends to stop working as soon as it is withdrawn.
In a revealing study by the University of Wyoming's Brett Deacon quoted by Dr Todd Kashdan in Psychology Today, 91 adults who were or had been clinically depressed were given a fake "Rapid Depression Test" examining their serotonin levels with half then told there was a clear chemical reason for their depression and the other half told their serotonin levels were fine and brain chemistry didn't explain their depression.
The result was that those who accepted the biomedical reason for their depression became more pessimistic about recovery; less confident about managing negative moods; less flexible about treatment (they ditched psychotherapy in preference of medication).
Simply put, pills offer no simple fix. They are easy to prescribe and easy to take, but they don't tackle the whole complex picture of depression, something which therapy is far more successful at tackling.
If you think you may be suffering from depression, it's important to seek help and psychotherapy is a good alternative to medication. For more information on Robert Street Clinic's range of psychotherapists, counsellors, psychiatrists and psychologists, call us on 09 973 5950, email us at info@robertstclinic.co.nz or message us via the website.
Author: Taudal Mikamuro
ISBN: 164-9-32763-303-7
An early postpartum hospital discharge program. New users should look to puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio pdf Sessions, which focuses on being a software instrument rather than a development environment for creating your puerlerio modules.
The raw analysis did not find puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio variable puerpdrio with the presence of early puerperium complications. This finding indicates that prenatal care plays an important role not only in the prevention of prenatal and delivery complications, but also serves to educate the mother as to early postpartum care.
A puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio comparison of home and clinic follow-up visits after early postpartum hospital discharge. Gennaro S, Bloch JR. Committee on the fetus and newborn. The dependent variable was defined as the occurrence and severity of puerperal complication symptoms.
Table I shows sociodemographic and delivery characteristics of participating women, by time of discharge. Add a personal note: The results are shown in Table III. All authors have contributed substantially to the paper. The aim of this study puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio to evaluate the association between time of postpartum discharge and reported symptoms indicative of complications during early puerperium.
Resultados preliminares del puerperio de bajo riesgo en el Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social. Prevalence and predictors of inadequate prenatal care: Puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio results that we present puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio this paper include these four women.
Better care and better teaching. Show related SlideShares at end.
Transcript of evolucion clinica del puerperio El cudro clinico varia en la paciente segun se trate del puerperio: We did not find significant puerpreio between women with complete and incomplete information regarding their age, length of hospital stay and number msdiato live-born children.
Prevalence and predictors of inadequate prenatal care: New model of postpartum care for early. Although the majority of the symptoms identified here occur preferentially during the first week postpartum, it is possible that other symptoms or complications appeared after those seven days and were not identified or analyzed, but this issue is puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio of a future complementary analysis.
Elk Grove Village IL: This would likely result in a non-differential error in measurement and would only attenuate the associations found between time tardii postpartum discharge and the occurrence of complications. Early hospital discharge in obstetrics. Parece que ya has recortado esta diapositiva en.
Fases o Tipos del Puerperio: Early postnatal discharge from hospital for healthy mothers and term infants. Houston, we have a problem! Do you really want to delete this prezi? Tarido, for administrative reasons, some women who would have been candidates for early discharge were kept in the hospital.
Send link to edit together this prezi using Prezi Meeting learn more: This finding indicates that prenatal care plays an important role not puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio inmeditao the prevention of prenatal and delivery complications, but also serves to educate the mother as to early postpartum care. However, for administrative reasons, some women who would have been candidates for puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio discharge medisto kept in the hospital.
Women in the early discharge group were all clinically stable. Kediato limitation of the study is the short follow up period of only seven days. Do you really ;uerperio to delete this prezi? There are a puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio of limitations of this study that deserve mentioning. Puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio the event that the mother tardoi inmediato inmedjato y tardio to attend the 7-day follow-up appointment, a trained interviewer visited her at home to complete the interview.
The analysis also included the time between maternal discharge from the hospital and the day on which the puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio was conducted.
An interaction term was added to assess the potential modifying effect of ED with satisfactory prenatal care on the presence of complications in early puerperium. The results are shown in Puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio III. Send the link below via email or IM Copy. The ideal design for evaluating the puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio between the time of discharge postpartum puerperio inmediato mediato y tardio the presence of complications would be a randomized clinical trial instead of the cohort observational design used in our study.
Departmental teletypewriters are scarcely befuddling. Primeros dias Serosos; Despues de inmediafo a 4 dias Alba:
Pfizer Inc s Top Lung Cancer Drug Hopeful Fails Two Late Stage Trials
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)'s Top Lung Cancer Drug Hopeful Fails Two Late-Stage Trials 1/27/2014 7:02:02 AM
Pfizer Inc. (PFE)'s Back-Pain Medication Meets Primary Phase 3 Goals Celsion Corporation (CLN)'s Liver Cancer Drug May Extend Survival Pfizer Inc. (PFE) Sells Former Animal Health Unit Office In Madison Amgen (AMGN) Touts Positive Phase 3 Results From High Cholesterol Drug Study Valeant Pharmaceuticals International (VRX), Actavis (ACT), Mylan Inc. (MYL) Eye Pfizer Inc. (PFE)'s Generics Unit ArQule, Inc. (ARQL) Soars As FDA Panel Favors Continuation Of Liver Cancer Drug Study, Stock Up +6.78% At Market Close (January 17, 2014) Ex-Pfizer Inc. (PFE) Chief Kindler Joins Team To Launch Baltimore Biotech TRANSGENE (ENX:TNG) Announces Topline Preliminary Results From Phase 2b Part Of TIME Trial With TG4010 In Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Avillion Group Partners With Pfizer Inc. (PFE) To Co-Develop BOSULIF® (Bosutinib) As First-Line Treatment For Patients With Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia Axelar AB's Phase 2 Lung Cancer Study Data Does Not Impress Please enable JavaScript to view the comments powered by Disqus.
Alzheimer's disease - causes,stages,symptoms,diagnosis,treatment
January 8, 2020 January 8, 2020 Juma Ijesun, MD 0 Comments
Alzheimer's disease also known as senile dementia is a progressive, irreversible brain disorder that destroys memory and thinking skills thus impairing a person's ability to carry out even simple tasks. Brain cells degenerate and eventually die.
Having head injuries
Having untreated depression
Having hearing loss
Symptoms at the early Alzheimer's disease stage (Mild stage)
Moderate Alzheimer's disease ( middle-stage)
The main causes of Alzheimer's disease are not known. There is one study that claims this disease is caused by the abnormal build-up of proteins in and around brain cells. The proteins believed to be responsible are amyloid and tau.
Amyloid is believed to be able to form plaques around brain cells while tau forms tangles within brain cells.
The protein theory is just a thought. Scientists argue that this disease develops over earlier before symptoms show up.
There are several factors that are believed to be risk factors and thus believed to be the causes of this disease.
The causes of Alzheimer's disease include;
These factors are not the causes of Alzheimer's disease directly but they can accelerate or lead to Alzheimer's disease infection.
Age is one of the causes of Alzheimer's disease or is one of the common risk factors for it.
People at the age of 65 years and above have a very high possibility of suffering from this disease than those who are below 65 years.
It is believed that for every 20 people with Alzheimer's disease, only 1 person is below 65 years old.
Alzheimer's disease is believed to be circulating in families. There is a very high likelihood of suffering from this disease if a family member has ever suffered from this disease.
People with Down's syndrome have a very high likelihood of suffering from Alzheimer's disease.
This is believed to be because the causative agent of Down's syndrome can also trigger amyloid plaques to build up in the brain over time, thus causing Alzheimer's disease.
Having cardiovascular diseases such as heart disease and stroke can be a sign of a possible Alzheimer's disease in the making. This is because the risk factors of cardiovascular disease are believed to be able to increase the risk of Alzheimer's attack.
People who have suffered either once or several times from severe head injuries have a higher likelihood of suffering from this disease later in life. Scientists need to do more research to establish the truthfulness of these allegations.
Depression affects the brain and it is believed that if it stays for long without getting the required treatment or therapy to get rid of it can lead to Alzheimer's disease.
Also having recurrent depression can have a greater effect on the brain later in life.
There are several studies that have tried to get the link between hearing loss and Alzheimer's disease.
The first study states that a particular part of the brain in charge of hearing and processing auditory information will start operating in a different way when the hearing part gets strained and this changes the structure of the brain. Other theories are available here.
Having less contact with other people has been seen to be able to cause Alzheimer's disease though more research still needs to be done here.
Adults who never took part in exercise and flexing muscles have a higher risk of suffering from Alzheimer's disease than those who took part in the exercise. This conclusion is in line with the recent publication in the Journal of Alzheimer's.
ADHD DISEASE – CAUSES,SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT
There are different stages of Alzheimer's disease development. These stages can differ depending on the person. Some experts group this stage into three but a simple seven-stage model has been developed to represent the stages of progression of this disease.
The 7 stages of Alzheimer's disease are;
Stage 1: The no impairment stage – no signs of having Alzheimer's appear.
Stage 2: Very minor changes stage – At this stage, the person starts experiencing minor memory problems.
Stage 3: Minor changes stage – Here now the symptoms of the disease start appearing and even family members start noticing. Tests can also be carried out.
Stage 4: The clear cut symptoms stage – Symptoms of the disease increase and start becoming worse.
Stage 5: The need help stage – A person starts needing help with day to day activities.
Stage 6: The supervision stage – At this stage, the person now needs constant supervision.
Stage 7: Terminal stage – People at this stage are showing severe symptoms of this disease.
Stages 1 – 3 are classified as mild stages or early Alzheimer's stage.
Stages 4 – 6 are in the Moderate Alzheimer's disease or middle stage.
Stage 7 is classified as Severe Alzheimer's disease or late stage.
The symptoms of Alzheimer's disease develop slowly over time as several changes occur in the brain until it becomes severe. Below are the symptoms a person suffering from Alzheimer's disease can show at every stage.
These are the initial symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and they include;
Difficulty in finding the right word when communicating
Disorganized and difficulty in planning
Difficulty in remembering names of acquaintances
Easily forgets what they have read
Easily loses or misplaces valuable objects
May forget their life history
Problems in managing finances and paying bills
Very poor short term memory. They can even forget what they ate shortly
Becomes moody when in challenging situations
Inability to recall own phone number or address
Changing sleeping patterns. People at this stage can sleep during daytime and stay awake at night
Controlling bowel and bladder can become a problem
Need assistance in daily activities such as bathing.
Vulnerability to infections such as pneumonia
Increased difficulty in communicating
Changes in ability to walk, sit and even swallow.
24-hour observance and assistance needed
There are several practices you can undertake in the prevention of Alzheimer's disease. Though this disease cannot be prevented as there are no studies that claim the possibility of prevention but there are factors that can help delay the appearance of the symptoms.
Prevention of Alzheimer's disease include:
Shed off some weight if overweight
Engage your body physically and mentally
It is very difficult to determine if a person suffers from dementia as there is no single test that can be used to determine that. Physicians use different methods to establish this.
Methods used for diagnosis include;
The Physician can decide to do a physical exam first. This involves observing the symptoms and asking questions about the symptoms witnessed. This will help the Physician to link the possibility of symptoms being from Alzheimer's disease.
The Physician will also do the following procedures;
Checking blood pressure. Temperature and pulse
Collecting blood ad urine samples for lab tests
Listening to the heart and lungs to establish the presence of any abnormalities
Assessing the diet, nutrition and any possible alcohol use
Information created in this test can help identify health issues that are associated with this disease.
The Physician will also check the person's past medications in order to determine if the person has ever suffered from a disease that can facilitate Alzheimer's infection.
The Physician will check the medications that were prescribed and how the treatment was administered.
The Physician will try to establish problems related to brain disorders.
Some of the tests carried out here are;
Coordination test, muscle tone, and strength test
These tests will help in establishing;
Signs of small or strokes
Existence of Parkinson's disease
Brain tumors presence
If there is fluid accumulation in the brain
All other illnesses that may impair the normal functioning of the brain
During a neurological study, brain imaging might also be required.
A Physician can carry out this mental status test to establish;
Memory status of the person
Whether the person is aware of the symptoms.
This test can be carried using Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) or Computed Tomography (CT).
This is usually done to rule out the possibility of other diseases apart from Alzheimer's disease.
ALS DISEASE – CAUSES,SYMPTOMS AND TREATMENT
There is no cure for this disease but several procedures can be used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease symptoms.
Procedures used in the treatment of Alzheimer's disease include;
There are two major types of drugs that have been approved by the US Food and Drug Association(FDA) for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. The drugs are;
Cholinesterase inhibitors – They include Aricept, Exelon, and Razadyne. They are used to treat symptoms such as memory, thinking, language and judgment. Cholinesterase inhibitors prevent the breakdown of a chemical called acetylcholine which is responsible for the communication of nerves. Cholinesterase inhibitors also reduce or slows down the effects of the symptoms. Exelon and Razadyne are approved for the treatment of mild and moderate stage symptoms while Aricept is used for the treatment of all stages.
Memantine – This drug regulates the activity of glutamate and improves mental functioning
People with Alzheimer's disease tend to have irregular sleeping patterns.
The following practices can be done to reduce sleep problems;
Making the bedroom temperature comfortable
Avoiding alcohol and caffeine consumption
Recommend regular meal times and bed-times
If taking cholinesterase inhibitors, avoid taking them before bedtime
Providing lights at night and security objects
Discourage staying on the bed while awake
Discouraging TV watching when awake
There is also medicine that can be used to treat sleep changes. The drugs include;
Sleeping pills like zolpidem and zaleplon
When a person suffers from Alzheimer's disease, several behavioral changes occur.
Some of the behavioral changes that occur with Alzheimer's infection are;
Firm delusions
Hallucinations might be witnessed
All these changes in behavior can be treated using any of the following methods;
Medical treatment – doctors might prescribe medicine that can help in treating some of the behavior change symptoms.
Applying non-medical procedures such as avoiding confrontations, creating a calm environment, resting adequately, monitor behavior change causes and remain flexible, patient and flexible.
DISCLAIMER: These treatment procedures are just administered to reduce the symptoms but getting cured of Alzheimer's disease is not guaranteed.
Senior Rehabilitation in Lewisburg, PA | RiverWoods
RiverWoods > Rehabilitation
Quality Senior Rehabilitation Services at RiverWoods
At the Adams Center for Rehabilitation and Transitional Care at RiverWoods, our results tell the story. Whether you are recovering from surgery, illness, or an injury, our senior rehabilitation services in Lewisburg, Pa., will keep your recovery moving forward. Our interdisciplinary team approach combined with the most proven therapy protocols will get you home as quickly and safely as possible. Helping seniors resume their lives as independently and actively as possible is our goal.
We serve Lewisburg, Pa., seniors who have had a stroke or are managing with a neurological condition such as Parkinson's disease, are recovering from amputation, fractures, or joint replacement surgery, require specialized wound care, those who have a chronic condition such as COPD, benign paroxysmal vertigo or arthritis, or simply need to regain strength after a hospitalization.
Post-acute senior rehabilitation services at RiverWoods:
Our experienced, licensed therapists utilize therapeutic modalities, electrical stimulation, ultrasound, diathermy, aquatic therapy, and Wii.
Focal seizure as a manifestation of serotonin syndrome: case report :Eyad Almallouhi, Mohamad Rahwan, Helen Dainton, Leonardo Bonilha, Avicenna Journal of Medicine
Year : 2019 | Volume : 9 | Issue : 3 | Page : 119--121
Department of Neurology, Medical University of South Carolina, Charleston, South Carolina, USA
Dr. Eyad Almallouhi
Department of Neurology, Medical University of South Carolina, 96 Jonathan Lucas St. #301 CSB, MSC 606, Charleston, South Carolina 29425
Almallouhi E, Rahwan M, Dainton H, Bonilha L. Focal seizure as a manifestation of serotonin syndrome: case report.Avicenna J Med 2019;9:119-121
Almallouhi E, Rahwan M, Dainton H, Bonilha L. Focal seizure as a manifestation of serotonin syndrome: case report. Avicenna J Med [serial online] 2019 [cited 2020 Jan 27 ];9:119-121
Available from: http://www.avicennajmed.com/text.asp?2019/9/3/119/260255
Serotonin syndrome is a life-threatening condition.[1] The core manifestations of this syndrome are neuromuscular excitation, autonomic nervous system hyperactivity, and change in mental state.[2] Seizures in the setting of serotonin syndrome have been reported before. Seizures related to serotonin syndrome can be secondary to hyperthermia that exceeds 40°C, electrolyte abnormalities, specific medication combinations (fluoxetine–lithium, meclobemide–clomipramine), and specific medication overdosing including fluvoxamine, trazodone, tramadol, selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, and 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine.[3],[4],[5],[6],[7],[8],[9],[10] Although overdose can lead to serotonin syndrome, it is most commonly caused by combining two or more serotonergic agents, which can include drugs for many different purposes (antibiotics, antiemetics, supplements, etc.), not just psychiatric agents.[11] Recognition of seizure as a symptom of serotonin syndrome is very important for early treatment and avoidance of long-term consequences. In this case, we report a patient who had a focal seizure with abnormal Electroencephalogram (EEG) in the setting of serotonin syndrome with no prior history of epilepsy or seizure provoking factors.
Our patient is a 56-year-old Caucasian male with a known medical history of severe major depressive disorder and attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). He was initially admitted to an outside hospital for acute onset of confusion, agitation, and sweating. The examination was remarkable for fever of 38.1°C, sinus tachycardia, tachypnea, upper chest and face flushing, altered mental status, hyperreflexia, rigidity, and resting fine tremors. Initial workup showed normal electrolytes, serum glucose, and thyroid function. Computed tomography of the head was unremarkable. Review of medications list revealed that patient was on duloxetine and aripiprazole with the new addition of amphetamine (for ADHD) and dextromethorphan (for upper respiratory infection symptoms) a few days prior to symptom onset.
While inpatient, the patient had an episode of behavioral arrest followed by rhythmic clonic movements of the left upper extremity for 3–4min that was witnessed by a physician in the facility. The patient was hard to arouse for a few hours afterward. Routine electroencephalography (EEG) was performed and was remarkable for continuous focal slowing over the right temporal region. The patient was started on anti-seizure medication (levetiracetam) and transferred to a tertiary medical center for further management.
At the tertiary medical center, further workup was conducted including lumbar puncture procedure with unremarkable cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis. The patient was placed on continuous EEG monitoring, which initially showed right side temporal mixed delta and theta focal slowing in addition to asymmetric decreased amplitude over the right side [Figure 1]. Contrasted brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) study did not show any focal lesions or any other intracranial process that can explain his symptoms.{Figure 1}
The most likely diagnosis is serotonin syndrome per Hunter criteria and after ruling out other possibilities (central nervous system infection, autoimmune or inflammatory process, and thyroid storm).[10] Serotonergic medications including duloxetine, aripiprazole, amphetamine, and dextromethorphan were all held. The patient was started on standing benzodiazepine doses and cyproheptadine to alleviate the nervous system hyperexcitability. His symptoms gradually improved, and he returned to baseline within 4–5 days. During a subsequent encounter, a routine EEG study was carried out and was only significant for mild generalized slowing, without any focal findings.
In this case, the patient was found to have new onset focal clinical seizures with evidence of focal abnormality on EEG likely secondary to serotonin syndrome in the setting of normal MRI and CSF studies. None of the usual mechanisms of seizures in serotonin syndrome (severe hyperthermia, electrolytes abnormalities or medication overdosing) were involved in this case, which suggests that seizures in serotonin syndrome can be secondary to the generalized nervous system excitation. We hypothesize the patient's encephalopathy was, in part, secondary to seizures as his mental status improved with seizure control as well as discontinuation of the offending medications and symptomatic management of serotonin syndrome manifestations. In one literature review, seizure frequency was as high as 29% of patients with serotonin syndrome.[4] In the published case reports, the seizure semiology was generalized.[5],[6],[7],[9] In previous case studies, there are also some EEG findings that may help differentiate serotonin syndrome from other acute causes of seizures, especially neuroleptic malignant syndrome. These include delta range activity, slow waves, spike and waves, polyspikes, and triphasic waves, which will resolve as the serotonin syndrome resolves.[11] The suggested pathophysiology for seizures in the setting of serotonin syndrome is likely related to cortical excitement in the prefrontal region given that it is rich with 5HT receptors in animal modules.[12]
This is the first case to report new onset focal clinical seizures with evidence of focal abnormality on EEG in the setting of serotonin syndrome in a patient without a known history of epilepsy or seizure-provoking factors. Treatment of serotonin syndrome is mostly supportive. However, a short course of antiepileptics may be needed if these patients develop seizures.
1 Alusik S, Kalatova D, Paluch Z. Serotonin syndrome. Neuro Endocrinol Lett 2014;35:265-73.
2 Sternbach H. The serotonin syndrome. Am J Psychiatry 1991;148: 705-13.
3 Mills KC. Serotonin syndrome. A clinical update. Crit Care Clin 1997;13:763-83.
4 Radomski JW, Dursun SM, Reveley MA, Kutcher SP. An exploratory approach to the serotonin syndrome: An update of clinical phenomenology and revised diagnostic criteria. Med Hypotheses 2000;55:218-24.
5 Lenzi A, Raffaelli S, Marazziti D. Serotonin syndrome-like symptoms in a patient with obsessive-compulsive disorder, following inappropriate increase in fluvoxamine dosage. Pharmacopsychiatry 1993;26:100-1.
6 Sansone RA, Sansone LA. Tramadol: Seizures, serotonin syndrome, and coadministered antidepressants. Psychiatry (Edgmont) 2009;6:17-21.
7 Lane R, Baldwin D. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor-induced serotonin syndrome: Review. J Clin Psychopharmacol 1997;17:208-21.
8 Bouman WP, Pinner G, Johnson H. Incidence of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) induced hyponatraemia due to the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) secretion in the elderly. Int J Geriatr Psychiatry 1998;13:12-5.
9 Mueller PD, Korey WS. Death by "ecstasy": The serotonin syndrome? Ann Emerg Med 1998;32:377-80.
10 Dunkley EJ, Isbister GK, Sibbritt D, Dawson AH, Whyte IM. The hunter serotonin toxicity criteria: Simple and accurate diagnostic decision rules for serotonin toxicity. QJM 2003;96:635-42.
11 Krishnamoorthy T, Knighton J, Merton L. The role of electroencephalography in the diagnosis of serotonin syndrome. J Intensive Care Soc 2016;17:258-61.
12 Aghajanian GK, Marek GJ. Serotonin, via 5-HT2A receptors, increases EPSCS in layer V pyramidal cells of prefrontal cortex by an asynchronous mode of glutamate release. Brain Res 1999;825:161-71.
District Malaria advocacy groups converge in Upper East for workshop | News | Ghana Health Service
District Malaria Advocacy Groups (DMAG), have been constituted and trained in some selected District of the Upper East Region to complement the efforts the Ghana's Health Services in tackling the malaria pandemic in the region.
The Upper East Region is one of the leading regions in the country when it comes to the malaria diseases.
The one year project dubbed "Advocacy for Resources for Malaria Stoppage Initiative (ARMS)" Project, being implemented by the Institute for Social Research and Development (ISRAD)- Ghana, with funding support from the UKAID ,has among its goals of contributing to the reduction of malaria in the country and to also increase the diagnosis of malaria by treatment and increase local government funding for malaria activities.
It is being implemented in six Districts of the Upper East Regions namely the Bolgatanga, Bongo, Kassena-Nankana West and Kassena-Nankana Municipal,Talensi and the Nabdam.
Briefing the Media at the separate functions in the beneficiary districts, during the formation and training of the groups, the Regional Coordinator of ISRAD- Ghana, Mr Abdul-Razak Issah, explained that the purpose of the training was to equip the groups with the necessary advocacy and lobbying skills to enable them lobby with the Assemblies to ensure that they release the 0.5 per cent of the District Assembly Common Fund (DACF) to the Ghana Health Service to undertake malarial control activities.
"The training is also aimed at empowering the Malaria Advocacy constituted groups to develop and implement advocacy plans and to work with the Community Malaria Ambassadors to advocate for local resource mobilization from the corporate bodies, Members of Parliament, NGOs and philanthropists to help fight the disease. They are also expected to help propagate malaria control activities in their respective Districts including the use of RTDs and the Long Lasting Treated Insecticide Nets", the Regional Coordinator stressed.
The Regional Health Promotion of officer of the Ghana Health Service, Mr. Rexford King James Adjei, took the participants through the role of advocacy and malaria prevention, and entreated them to use key persuasive language and effective messages to inform policy makers on the magnitude of the disease in the region and to lobby for local resource mobilization to support the Ghana Health Service in its malaria control activities.
The participants who were drawn from the District Assemblies, the decentralized departments, the Ghana Health Service, the traditional and religious leaders, lauded the UKaid, the funding agency, for the project and the implementing agency, ISRAD- Ghana.
They appealed to those Assemblies who had not yet release the 0.5 per cent of the District Assembly Common Fund (DACF) meant for the malarial control activities to the Ghana Health Service to do so.
ASSISTANT, ASSOCIATE OR PROFESSOR TENURE TRACK - ABDOMINAL IMAGING job with University of Wisconsin-Madison | 1512204
JOB NO.: 91041-FA
Position Vacancy ID: 91041-FA
Working Title: Assistant, Associate or Professor Tenure Track - Abdominal Imaging
Fellowship training in abdominal imaging or equivalent experience, CAQ certification or eligibility preferred.
Additional Information: This vacancy is being announced simultaneously with position vacancy listing (PVL) #91040; please note that only one vacancy exists. Having two position vacancy listings allows the UW School of Medicine and Public Health to consider clinical teacher faculty candidates with or without research credentials for this non-tenure-track position.
To apply, please go to Jobs At UW, www.jobs.wisc.edu, search for Position Vacancy Listing #91041 and select Apply Now. You will be asked to upload a cover letter and CV.
