Memory Loss Can be Reversed -- Just Exercise | Health & Fitness 101
Memory Loss Can be Reversed — Just Exercise
The second study even found that high-intensity aerobic exercise for six months was enough to improve brain function in those already suffering from mild cognitive impairment — without the extra cost and dangerous side effects that occur when drugs are used instead. The authors stated:
"Six months of a behavioral intervention involving regular intervals of increased heart rate was sufficient to improve cognitive performance for an at-risk group without the cost and adverse effects associated with most pharmaceutical therapies."
A regular exercise program can also slow the development of Alzheimer's disease by altering the way damaging proteins reside in your brain. In animal studies, significantly fewer damaging plaques and fewer bits of beta-amyloid peptides, associated with Alzheimer's, were found in mice that exercised.
Unfortunately, not enough people are willing to arrange their schedules around exercise, and this is due to something much deeper than time management — it's due to psychological resistance.
Iatrogenic iron overload and its potential consequences in patients on hemodialysis. Presse Med. 2017 Nov 16;: Authors: Rostoker G, Vaziri ND Abstract Iron overload was considered rare in hemodialysis patients until recently, but its clinical frequency is now increasingly recognized. The liver is the main site of iron storage and the liver iron concentration (LIC) is closely correlated with total iron stores in patients with secondary hemosiderosis and genetic hemochromatosis. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is now the gold standard method for estimating and monitoring LIC. Studies of LIC in hemodialysis patients by magnetic susceptometry thirteen years ago and recently by quantitative MRI have demonstrated a relation between the risk of iron overload and the use of intravenous (IV) iron products prescribed at doses determined by the iron biomarker cutoffs contained in current anemia management guidelines. These findings have challenged the validity of both iron biomarker cutoffs and current clinical guidelines, especially with respect to recommended IV iron doses. Moreover, three recent long-term observational studies suggested that excessive IV iron doses might be associated with an increased risk of cardiovascular events and death in hemodialysis patients. It has been hypothesized that iatrogenic iron overload in the era of erythropoiesis-stimulating agents might silently increase complications in dialysis patients without creating obvious, clinical ...
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/29153377?dopt=Abstract
Conditions: Acute Kidney Injury; Transfusion-Associated Circulatory Overload; Anemia; Fluid Overload Interventions: Other: Transfusion; Other: Crystalloids infusion Sponsor: Università degli Studi di Ferrara Not yet recruiting
Blood management in enhanced recovery after hip and knee replacement
Publication date: Available online 10 December 2019Source: Orthopaedics &Traumatology: Surgery &ResearchAuthor(s): Pierre Dao, Philippe MassinAbstractEnhanced recovery in orthopedic surgery is a global patient management strategy to achieve early functional recovery. Blood management is central to rehabilitation protocols after hip or knee replacement. Coagulation physiology in hip and knee replacement is now well described, showing aggravation of bleeding by hyperfibrinolysis. The present study approaches blood management via 3 questions. 1/How to anticipate and prevent transfusion risk preoperatively? Screen...
Is this significant enough to send an update?
So I just got promoted to supervisor at my current job and also start working part time as a community health worker where I work primarily with patients with sickled cell anemia. I have also took on some new volunteer roles where I have organized several community outreach events and making presentations at schools and large corporations about our nonprofit organization. Not sure if this is significant enough for an update pre-II. Any idea? Please don't quote. Thank you
Source: Student Doctor Network - December 11, 2019 Category: Universities & Medical Training Authors: CardioEnthusio15 Tags: Pre-Medical - MD Source Type: forums
Iron Metabolism, Hemolytic Anemia, and Thalassemia
More News: Anemia | Cardiology | Cardiovascular | Dialysis | General Medicine | Genetics | Heart | Hemodialysis | Hormones | Iron | Liver | MRI Scan | Study | Toxicology | Urology & Nephrology
Doctor not responsible for death at UW-RF | New Richmond News
By RiverTown Newsroom on May 15, 2006 at 12:00 a.m.
Erik Spindler, 20, a business administration major from Stillwater, Minn., died Nov. 11, 2002, at River Falls Area Hospital. His family later filed a malpractice suit against Dr. Eric Poulin, the emergency room doctor who treated the young man.
Spindler, who was living in UWRF's Hathorn Hall, had been ill with symptoms that included a severe headache, fever, chills and vomiting. Residence hall staff took him to the emergency room Nov. 10.
According to the suit, Poulin admitted Spindler to the hospital for observation and the young man died at about 1 a.m. Nov. 11.
The lawsuit was filed by his mother, Christine Spindler, as administrator of his estate, and on behalf of his sister, Amy. The Spindlers were seeking compensation for the student's pain and suffering and for his funeral and burial expenses.
The trial began the morning of May 2. Closing statements were given May 8. The predeliberation instructions read to jurors said Spindler was ill when he placed himself under Poulin's care and that his illness wasn't caused or contributed to by any negligence on the part of the doctor. The question before the jury was whether Spindler's health, as it was when he first saw the doctor, was "aggravated or further impaired as a natural result of Dr. Erik Poulin's treatment."
According to court notes, the 12-person jury left at 10:23 a.m. to begin deliberations. Court was called back into session to hear the verdict at 10:45 a.m. The verdict was unanimous.
Judy Wiff handles regional coverage for RiverTown Newspaper Group. She can be reached at regional@rivertowns.net or (715) 425-1561.
COPD Advanced Patient Management: Post Acute Care Resource Center: Activity One - Frontmatter
The purpose of this educational activity is to improve the management of symptoms, conditions, presentations and quality of life issues commonly associated with the post-acute care, advanced (moderate to severe) COPD patients in their home environment. A principle focus will be to increase clinicians' knowledge of clinical indications, evidence and approaches to current, as well as new and innovative technologies. Physicians, home care providers and other healthcare professionals will learn techniques to better manage the signs and symptoms of the home COPD patient that impact COPD exacerbations, hospital readmissions, quality of life and activities of daily living. Additional emphasis will be placed on clinical evidence and case studies specific to the home COPD patient encountering multi-faceted quality of life challenges such as dyspnea, sleep disordered breathing, airway secretions or activities of daily living, and associated interventions including oxygen therapy, non-invasive ventilation, airway clearance, mask selection, sleep therapy and remote monitoring and tele-monitoring. A multi-disciplinary, multi-national panel of pulmonary experts will provide depth of perspective on managing these clinically challenging patients in the home.
Summarize why discharge planning is critically important with regard to COPD patients who are hospitalized.
Discuss what specific approaches and actions should be part of a well-planned and coordinated discharge planning process for COPD patients to try to reduce the rate of hospital readmission within 30 days of hospitalization.
Categorize what risk factors for COPD readmission are specific or not specific to COPD patients, and are critically important for physicians and health care providers to consider when carefully formulating a discharge plan for a COPD patient.
The Lasik operation can be a fantastic, life-altering choice for many people whose vision is less than ideal. There are a number of different types of Lasik operations now readily available, from the initial and well recorded procedure to Lasik treatments made with 3 dimensional wavefronts, or done totally with lasers. Each of these variations of the Lasik procedure should be gone over with the physician that is to carry out the operation.
Sometimes checking out the horror stories of the results of a Lasik treatment can discourage individuals from seriously thinking about such a choice. It is likewise true that the large numbers of people who have a successful, trouble-free Lasik surgical treatment tend not to report a comprehensive and long story of their experience, unlike those that have actually experienced problem afterward.
It is good to understand what the possible side results of the Lasik procedure are, and likewise the likelihood that one of these side results will occur for a particular client. Similar to any medication we take, each has a possible variety of negative effects, but we generally assume that the probability of a major negative effects is small, and we take the medicine anyhow. This article will hopefully put issues of the potential Lasik patient into perspective so that they can calmly and attentively consider having a Lasik procedure done in the future.
More than one million Lasik procedures are performed in the US every year, inning accordance with the FDA. This arm of the national government has actually collected the following statistics for the most common adverse effects of the Lasik treatment. These data will also differ by the physician performing the surgical treatment, so make sure to obtain as much details on the prospective Lasik physician as possible.
After Lasik surgery, 1.7 percent of patients experience some glare or level of sensitivity to light after the operation. This differs by client, however this level of sensitivity is especially noticeable when looking at a brilliant light, such as a streetlight when strolling during the night, or other strong light and dark contrast. Another light related negative effects is a halo around a light, and this occurs in 3.5 percent of Lasik clients.
The brand-new, corrected vision can be noticed rapidly by some Lasik clients, in just a couple of hours after surgical treatment. The majority of clients that have actually gone through the Lasik treatment discover the change is irreversible within a few days. In 2.6 percent of customers that have had a my sources Lasik procedure done, there is persistent visual fluctuation within at least a part of their sphere of vision.
Some patients do not get a fully corrected sphere of vision after their Lasik treatment. This occurs with a small number of customers, and the FDA stats are that only 3 percent of clients have this result. In all or nearly all cases, the doctor in charge will carry out an additional Lasik treatment to improve this.
This detailing of the major long-term side effects of the Lasik treatment ought to put any individual scary stories into point of view. Notice that none of the portions are above 3 percent, and this must bring comfort to most potential Lasik clients. However, it must likewise motivate them to look thoroughly at the Lasik physician's personal record.
There are numerous find more info different types of Lasik operations now available, from the initial and well documented treatment to Lasik procedures done with 3 dimensional wavefronts, description or done entirely with lasers. It is excellent to know exactly what the possible side impacts of the Lasik procedure are, and also the possibility that one of these side results will happen for a particular patient. A lot of clients that have gone through the Lasik treatment discover the change is irreversible within a few days. Some clients do not get a fully corrected sphere of vision after their Lasik treatment.
Studies - Admissions - Tampere University of Technology (TUT)
Master's Studies	>
Science and Bioengineering	>
Studies	Studying in Science and Bioengineering
Our education is based on freedom coupled with personal responsibility. The programme is organized into modules which each include optional components so the degree can be customized to suit the needs of individual students. As most of our teaching staff also conduct research, the education is coupled with research undertaken at Tampere University of Technology. The learning outcomes of the programme are: Students attain the competency to work as experts within the fields of modern molecular and instrumental technologies.
Students attain the competency for scientific postgraduate education in the field of measurement technology related to modern bio- and nanotechnologies.
Students learn to recognise, manage, and use the scientific and professional concepts of the major (bioimaging, biomeasurements, biotechnology, information technology for health and biology, or nanotechnology) as well as manage the basics of the minor(s).
Students attain the ability to apply scientific methods to current and concrete assignments in the field of their major.
Students acquire language skills and learn communication and cooperation skills required in working life.
Choose your major and top it up with a minor
The total extend of the degree is 120 ECTS credits of which 90 credits are composed of course work and 30 credits of the master's thesis. Each credit represents an average workload of 27 hours including lectures, assignments, independent learnng and an examination. Students are expected to earn around 60 credits per academic year and thereby complete the degree in two years. The degree comprises the following modules: Common programme studies (20 cr) ensure that students will have the necessary theoretical skills to follow courses in the major and minor studies
Major (30-35 cr) and the master's thesis (30 cr) the main subject of the degree
the master's thesis is written on a topic connected to the major
is chosen from five alternatives : Bioimaging
Information Technology for Health and Biology
Minor (25 cr) chosen from set of alternatives that support the major and personalize the degree, in 2012-2013 minors are: Biomaterials Biomeasurements Biomedical engineering Biotechnology Computational systems biology Industrial Management Mathematics Nanotechnology Optional studies (0-15 cr) any courses from the TUT course catalogue that students select to learn specific skills that are not part of the major or minor modules. It is also possible to apply for the right to complete courses or one entire minor at another Finnish university through the so-called flexible study right system .
Diabetic Manual - Learn How to Control Your Type-2 Diabetes v2
Diabtes manual
Add: catudyv25 - Date: 2021-04-27 11:16:01 - Views: 5195 - Clicks: 3228
A meal plan is your guide for when, what, and how much to eat to get the nutrition you need while keeping your blood sugar levels in your target range. This includes food recommendations, dietary supplements, and other key lifestyle changes that have been used by tens of thousands of diabetics throughout the United States. Type 1 diabetes is an autoimmune disorder that attacks the pancreas and destroys its ability to make insulin, the hormone that keeps blood sugar in check. Diabetes mellitus is a disorder in which the body does not produce enough or respond normally to insulin, causing blood sugar (glucose) levels to be abnormally high. For! 46 MB) Chinese (Traditional) Diabetes Manual (PDF 1. Learn these new health habits, stay away from grains, bad fats, polluted processed products and you will be cured of diabetes PERMANENTLY. The DiabeticManual online program delivers to you the patented approach to making the exact lifestyle changes that will support you and your doctor to handle Type-II diabetes. March! Management! Effective for dates of service on or after Janu, the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) will be a Medi-Cal covered benefit. Also included is information about service frequency limits and instructions about billing for DPP services. This is where the truth leads to curing diabetes. First! American Diabetes Association:. Ask your doctor for a referral to DSMES services to help you manage your diabetes. Early symptoms are related to hyperglycemia and include polydipsia, polyphagia, polyuria, and blurred vision. MSD Manual Please confirm that you are a health care professional. ! These multicultural manuals were developed by Ann Marie Brooks, RN, diabetes educator at St. DIABETES COMPREHENSIVE CARE MANUAL 1 Chapter 1 basiC ConCepts of Diabetes Comprehensive Care 1. Home / ABC de la Diabetes / Manual para pacientes con Diabetes tipo 2. Manual diabtes
This manual has two purposes. These high levels are the result of the body's inability either to produce or to use insulin properly. Diabetes mellitus, or diabetes, is a group of diseases characterized by high blood glucose levels. Central Diabetes Insipidus - Etiology, pathophysiology, symptoms, signs, diagnosis & prognosis from the MSD Manuals - Medical Professional Version. ! HealthChoice Diabetes Prevention Program Manual Page 3 Version 8: 5/13/20 HCPCS code G9891 is a code used to track attendance and indicate that the CDC-recognized type 2 diabetes prevention program furnished a session that was not accounted for using an attendance performance goal code, such as G9874 (4 core sessions attended). Manual! Diabetes mellitus is impaired insulin secretion and variable degrees of peripheral insulin resistance leading to hyperglycemia. Also, review the structure of the manual and include the special training activities in Sessions 1 and 9 and. Put them in place when you start the Temporary Meal Plan. The Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) is an evidence-based, lifestyle change program designed to assist Medi-Cal beneficiaries diagnosed with prediabetes in preventing or delaying the onset of type 2 diabetes. Asthma Education and Prevention Program (WV-AEPP). ChronicNon6Communicable! The Type 1 Diabetes Self-Care Manual can help you navigate any challenge with confidence. 00 + . The Type 1 Diabetes Self-Care Manual offers practical, evidence-based, and common sense help for people with type 1 diabetes and their caregivers. Of course you do all the other protocols in the Cure Manual and all type 2 diabetes should be corrected in 1 month. 0: introductions to Diabetes mellitus Diabetes mellitus is a chronic metabolic disorder that occurs when the pancreas does not produce enough insulin, or when the body cannot effectively use the insulin it produces or both. Users can track, analyze, review and export data in great detail. The content of this project is the sole. (14th Edition) – . Manual diabtes
Diabetes Guideline (PDF) Supporting Tools for Clinicians. A good meal plan will consider your goals, tastes, and lifestyle, as well as any medicines you're taking. Text. 7. Introduction. And! ! It covers everything, from blood sugar goals to complications and special considerations by age. Urination and thirst are increased, and people may lose weight even if they are not trying to. 2! ! ! Understanding Diabetes, or "The Big Book", is a comprehensive handbook for people who are living with diabetes. 0. Hypertension! The Standards define timely, evidence-based, quality DSMES services that meet or exceed the Medicare diabetes self-management training (DSMT) regulations; however, these standards do. Diseases! ! Version:! Understanding Diabetes – 14th Edition – NEW! Information about access to medication, testing strips and health care. Frohnert, MD, PhD. Manual diabtes
Diabetic Eye Exam Form (PDF) Diabetic Eye Exam Form. Diabetes Self-Management Education and Support (DSMES) services help people with diabetes learn how to take the best care of themselves. Of! ! The long-term specific complications of diabetes include retinopathy, nephropathy and neuropathy Steps for management of diabetes in a primary care setting ASSESS Risk factors Risk factors for type 2 diabetes (strong): • overweight/obesity • physical inactivity • diabetes in first degree relatives • history of gestational diabetes. The! Agricultural industries won't like it. Diabetes Freedom Main Manual Afterwards, you'll need to download and watch the Diabetes Freedom videos, so that you're able to apply the principles to your food habits. Successfully manage their diabetes, but this manual is designed for the vast majority of individuals with diabetes, who do. . ! Jamie Wood and Anne Peters, two of the leading experts on diabetes clinical care, the manual covers all aspects of type 1 diabetes. ! Diabetes mellitus is a condition in which the level of sugar (glucose) in the blood is abnormally high because the body does not release or use the hormone insulin properly. This is achieved by automatically adjusting basal insulin. Diciem. Additional FREE educational materials are available from the National Diabetes Education Program. ! Diabetes Manuals; Diabetes Manuals. Arabic Diabetes Manual (PDF 2. 211info is a free information and referral helpline. Dial 2-1-1, Monday - Friday, 8 am - 6 pm, or search the online database. Manual diabtes
! It was developed by diabetics to meet the needs of people who want to manage all aspects of their condition. ! The WV-AEPP is supported by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (grant number U59/CCU. Diabetes 1 Part 2 – Diabetes Prevention Program Diabetes Prevention Program Page updated: August This section explains requirements that providers and recipients must meet to participate in the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP). The Honoring the Gift of Diabetes Health manual can be used to train diabetes health educators. 7 Manual on the PEN Protocol on the Integrated Management of Hypertension and Diabetes Stepwise Approach – an information system on NCD risk factors that aims to provide standard yet simple and flexible tool and support collection of core data on the eight key modifiable risk. Communication Tools. 00 shipping per book. The Ultimate Diabetes Manual For Practitioners and Trainees Bridging the gap between International guidelines and your own Practice Systematic Delivery of Care with KPIs Monitoring Individualization of Patient Care Skills, Steps & Effective Solutions Diagnose and Manage All Diabetes Related Problems. (1985)! Sharon Witemeyer MD (Pediatrician) (Updated and edited Barbara Macmillan RN, CDE, BC-ADM) ----- Definition. USER GUIDES & MANUALS. The first is to lay out a treatment approach that integrates education and acceptance of thoughts, feelings, and bodily states to make a distinction between areas of living that are within an. Clinical Guidelines. Peter Chase, MD & Brigitte I. ! By H. Diabetes Health Trainers This manual is a so for you! Conduct your training as if you were teaching the program to community group members. Diabetes:M is an award-winning diabetes logbook app that was first published in Google Play in April. Diabetes Mellitus. Manual diabtes
· Counting carbs and the plate method are two common tools that can help you plan meals. Diabetes Group Orientation Training Manual The CD-ROM project was funded by the West Virginia Department of Health and Human Resources! ! Diabetes! Diabetes. ! MiniMed 770G System Support > About SmartGuard™ Auto Mode and Manual Mode About SmartGuard™ Auto Mode and Manual Mode Device: MiniMed™ 770G Insulin Pump SmartGuard™ Auto Mode SmartGuard™ Auto Mode is an insulin delivery feature designed to help people on intensive insulin therapy to achieve better control 24 hours a day. 47 MB). ! Diabetes Self-Management Education and Support (DSMES) Service is based on the most recent version of the standards that were reviewed and published in. Type 2 diabetes, reproductive health and pregnancy 113 Contraception 113 Sexual problems 114 Managing hyperglycaemia in pregnancy 115 Resources 119 References 119 Management of type 2 diabetes in older people and residential aged care facilities 121 Clinical context 121 In practice 122 Resources 126 References 126 Diabetes and end-of-life care 128. G9891 is a non-. If you have type 2 diabetes, your pancreas may produce plenty of insulin, but your body has trouble using it. Written by Drs. Diabetes manual. The Type 1 Diabetes Self-Care Manual will help guide you through the different phases of life with type 1 diabetes so you can face these challenges with confidence. Click on a Medtronic Diabetes product to find reference materials. ABC de la Diabetes, ABC de la Diabetes, Diabetes tipo 2. Resources for People with Diabetes. Learn about the user manuals available for diabetes patients using OneTouch® glucometers and testing supplies. This book outlines the basic diabetes care guidelines recommended by The Everett Clinic and offers advice on self-care for Type 2 diabetes. Manual diabtes
Type 2 diabetes is different. ! Marks Hospital. Diabetes damages the nerves and causes problems with sensation. Manual diabtes
Popular Stone Massage Benefits - shrimphome2
5:52 am 30 October 2020
The very hot stone massage is as well known as hot gemstone therapies or alternative therapies rub and bodywork, which usually involves inserting the some involving either heated or perhaps relaxed stones into the human body for the purposes connected with pain relief, emotional recovery and normal healing. When there are many different kinds of hot stone therapy, this kind of type is becoming pretty popular inside Western medicine. In fact, this will be one of the almost all popular forms of choice healing used in present modern medical local community.
Even though the important things about this treatment may be similar to those found in more traditional medication, it can in addition be beneficial to men and women who else use it. Generally there is even anecdotal facts that the heat given to certain areas of often the human body might be advantageous in alleviating soreness. All these benefits include decreasing the particular need for medicinal drugs, rushing up healing time and even even increasing blood circulation.
Presently there are quite a few advantages to the type of treatment different than the original forms. One of the most frequent good reasons people choose to be able to use this type associated with therapy is because they think it lowers stress. That is because the warmth has become proven to increase oxygen in addition to energy flow through the body. This is especially helpful in improving this caused by pressure, fatigue and even lack of energy.
Another benefit in order to applying hot stone therapeutic massage is basically because it has recently been shown to be a effective method of relieving soreness. Some decrease even proven that individuals with arthritis and other chronic illnesses have had significant enhancements when utilizing this type regarding therapy on a new standard basis.
Because the temp of the popular rocks utilized in this form involving therapy is much less excessive as in traditional types, the skin is not burned or maybe damaged. Several individuals experience slight skin soreness when using this form of therapy but these kinds of commonly clear up inside a week or two after the initial treatment method period.
A lot of people as well choose to use hot stone therapy to relieve anxiety, tension and to increase their very own entire bodily health. Whilst the particular results range depending on particular person tastes, research has shown that will hot stone therapy has positive effects on the variety of problems, like depression, anxiety and even malignancy.
One of the most essential advantages of hot gemstone therapy is that there is simply no risk of side side effects, and that is something that traditional forms of treatment carry out not necessarily offer. In fact , studies have shown that people which practice this form of therapeutic report fewer headaches, intestinal complaints, sleeplessness and even severe headaches along with no pain at just about all.
The fact hot stone remedy is natural and safe does definitely not suggest that that is not beneficial. However, this should be mentioned that there are some people who should not try this form of therapies. Quite a few individuals should certainly not apply it due to their very own health or even allergy symptoms.
With regard to example, individuals affected by breathing difficulties or hypersensitivity probably should not consider hot stone rub credited to the amount involving air that will pass via the skin during the particular treatments. This can bring about an increase in irritation and in some situations, it can be dangerous in case the wrong pressure is usually put on the skin.
In the event that you are pregnant, you need to furthermore avoid hot natural stone massage because it will be able to raise your risk of acquiring complications during pregnancy. Although several people find this sort of therapies helpful to relieve discomfort, the idea is not advised to get pregnant women.
구찌출장안마 A person should also be mindful that warm stone rub is not advised regarding youngsters under several decades old because it can inflame the delicate epidermis in its appearance, lips and possibly the teeth. Its also wise to continue to keep in mind that this form of massage can have some serious unwanted side effects such as excessive excessive sweating, dizziness and in many cases fainting. So if you are troubled from a problem, it can be best to discuss this particular with the doctor before an individual try it.
You will find quite a few benefits to hot gemstone massage. If you suffer from a condition as well as you simply need a good little spare assist with your stress quantities, do this form of therapy to see if this might be a superior choice for you.
Rapid regression of cystoid macular edema associated with cytomegalovirus retinitis in adult acute myeloid leukemia by intravitreal methotrexate combined with oral valganciclovir: A case report with comparison of binocular outcome Huang EJ, Wang CP, Lai CH, Chen CC, Kuo CN - Taiwan J Ophthalmol
Year : 2016 | Volume : 6 | Issue : 3 | Page : 145-149
Evelyn Jou-Chen Huang1, Chih-Ping Wang2, Chien-Hsiung Lai1, Chih-Chien Chen3, Chien-Neng Kuo2
1 Department of Ophthalmology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi; Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Tao-Yuan; Department of Nursing, Chang Gung University of Science and Technology, Chiayi, Taiwan
2 Department of Ophthalmology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi; Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Tao-Yuan, Taiwan
3 Division of Hematology & Oncology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi, Taiwan
Department of Ophthalmology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi Number 6, West Section, Chiapu Road, PuTzu City, Chiayi County 613
DOI: 10.1016/j.tjo.2015.07.004
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis is a late complication of organ and hematopoietic stem cell transplant, the risk of which depends on the degree of immunosuppression. With the institution of preemptive ganciclovir therapy early after transplant, most patients survive episodes of life-threatening CMV infection during the early months (usually the first 3 months) after transplant and hence late onset of CMV disease, such as CMV retinitis, is being recognized more frequently. Direct involvement of the macula or optic head remains the leading cause of visual loss in patients with CMV retinitis, but there are few studies investigating the management of this condition.
Herein, we present the case of 28-year-old man who had acute myeloid leukemia and developed CMV retinitis with bilateral cystoid macular edema and optic swelling in the right eye 6 months after bone marrow transplant. He received treatment with intravitreal methotrexate in the right eye in combination with oral valganciclovir. Visual acuity improved 1 month after four weekly injections of intravitreal methotrexate 400 µg/0.1 mL. Resolved disc swelling and regression of macular edema were also observed. By comparing binocular outcome, we present our findings and discuss the possible efficacy and safety of this treatment with respect to regression of anatomical damage and improvement in visual acuity.
Keywords: cystoid macular edema, cytomegalovirus retinitis, hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, methotrexate, valganciclovir
Huang EJ, Wang CP, Lai CH, Chen CC, Kuo CN. Rapid regression of cystoid macular edema associated with cytomegalovirus retinitis in adult acute myeloid leukemia by intravitreal methotrexate combined with oral valganciclovir: A case report with comparison of binocular outcome. Taiwan J Ophthalmol 2016;6:145-9
Huang EJ, Wang CP, Lai CH, Chen CC, Kuo CN. Rapid regression of cystoid macular edema associated with cytomegalovirus retinitis in adult acute myeloid leukemia by intravitreal methotrexate combined with oral valganciclovir: A case report with comparison of binocular outcome. Taiwan J Ophthalmol [serial online] 2016 [cited 2022 Jan 21];6:145-9. Available from: https://www.e-tjo.org/text.asp?2016/6/3/145/204309
Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a double-stranded DNA virus belonging to the human herpesvirus family, which includes herpes simplex virus, varicella zoster virus, and Epstein–Barr virus. Clinical characteristics of systemic CMV infections were initially described in 1905.[1]
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection is the most common cause of immunosuppression leading to reactivation of CMV and symptomatic infection. Severe CMV infection has also been associated with congenital immunodeficiency syndromes, pharmacologic immunosuppression, organ transplantation, malignancy, and autoimmune disorders.[2] CMV infection is the leading viral cause of morbidity and mortality in patients receiving he-matopoietic stem cell transplants (HSCTs) or solid organ transplants (SOTs).[3]
One of the major targets of CMV infection is the retina.[4] Although the virus was long known as a human pathogen, CMV infection of the retina was not described until the 1950s.[5] CMV was proven to be the causative agent in presumed CMV retinitis in 1964.[6] CMV retinitis was the AIDS-defining diagnosis in about 5% of patients with HIV infections.[7] Among SOT patients, <2% develop CMV retinitis; however, the pediatric population is at a higher risk.[8] After HSCT, the only large study published on CMV retinitis development showed an incidence of 1.4% in patients who were alive 100 days post-transplant.[9]
CMV retinitis is bilateral in approximately one third of pa-tients.[10] It is a relentless, slowly progressive infection, which, if not treated, may result in blindness caused by total retinal necrosis, retinal detachment, optic nerve involvement, or a combination of several of these factors. Immune-mediated vascular damage may also play a role in vasculitis.
Immediate, acute loss of central vision early in the disease course rarely occurs.[11] The causes of severe central visual loss include CMV infection of the macular or optic nerve, macular serous exudation, and cystoid macular edema (CME). CMV can either infect the optic nerve directly or by extension from adjacent reti-nitis.[12] In the former case, optic neuritis with profound, irreversible visual loss usually develops. With CMV infection involving the disc or macular retina, an exudative neurosensory detachment develops around the optic nerve, macula, or both, often with the formation of a macular star of consisting of lipid exudation.[13]
Previous results showed that ganciclovir alone (systemic or intraocular administration) is less effective for CME in CMV retinitis probably because of the inflammatory processes associated with CME. CME tends to develop late in the clinical course, such as in the setting of resolving CMV retinitis in non-HIV patients[14] and in the case of immune-reconstitution syndrome in HIV patients.[15] Anti-inflammatory or immunomodulatory agents, in addition to ganci-clovir, may be considered in such situations.
The present case is of a patient with adult acute myeloid leukemia who developed CMV retinitis with bilateral CME and associated subretinal fluid 6 months after HSCT. Optic swelling was also observed in the right eye. Hesitant to receive intravitreal ganci-clovir injections twice a week in both eyes, he accepted treatment with less frequent intravitreal injection of methotrexate (MTX) once a week in his right eye (which had more severe symptoms) in combination with oral valganciclovir. With comparison of binocular outcome, we present our findings and discuss the possible efficacy and safety of this therapy for regression of macular damage and improvement in visual acuity.
A 28-year-old man had acute myeloid leukemia, M2 (Chr: 46,XY {6}; MLL-PTD[–], NPM1[–], FLT3-ITD[–]) and completed chemotherapy in June 2012. He had a relapse 1 year later and received reinduction chemotherapy in June 2013 and bone marrow transplant in November, 2013. CMV disease with gastrointestinal manifestation was diagnosed 7 weeks later by the detection of CMV DNA in plasma samples using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The patient received antiviral treatment with intravenous (IV) ganciclovir 450 mg (5 mg/kg) twice daily for 2 weeks until two consecutive samples of plasma negative for CMV PCR were obtained.
In May 2014, he was referred to our clinic as he had been experiencing deteriorating vision in both eyes for 2 weeks. At the first visit, his best corrected visual acuity was counting fingers at 20 cm (2 logMAR units) in his right eye (OD) and 20/100 (0.3 log-MAR units) in his left eye (OS).
Slit-lamp biomicroscopic examination of the anterior chamber in OS yielded normal results, whereas a 1+ anterior chamber cellular reaction was observed in OD. On indirect ophthalmoscopy, changes typical of CMV retinitis were observed, such as areas of yellow–white necrosis with vascular sheathing along the distribution of retinal vessels of the superior arc in OS and both the superior and inferior arcs in OD. Exudates and edema were also noted with varying degrees of hemorrhage, which presented with a brushfire pattern. Optic disc swelling was also noted in OD, which had worse visual acuity. Vitreous inflammation was mild in both eyes [Figure 1].
Figure 1: Classic changes of cytomegalovirus retinitis appeared as areas of yellowwhite necrosis with vascular sheathing along the distribution of retinal vessel of (B) the superior arc in the left eye and (A) both superior and inferior arcs in the right eye. Exudates and edema were also noted with variable amounts of associated brushfire pattern hemorrhage. Vitreous inflammation was mild and zone 1 involvement was showed in both eyes. Optic disc swelling was also noted in the right eye, which had worse visual acuity. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.) E.J.-C. Huang et al. / Taiwan Journal of Ophthalmology 6 (2016) 145e14146 9
Optical coherence tomography showed CME with subretinal fluid in both eyes [Figure 2]. Central macular thickness was 508 µm OD and 567 µm OS. On laboratory examination, CMV was identified in the aqueous humor of both eyes using PCR. The patient's hemograms revealed a relative immunocompetent status 1 month before and after he visited our clinic; however, PCR results for plasma CMV infection were positive again at that time.
Figure 2: The optical coherence tomography showed cystoid macular edema with subretinal fluid in (A) the right eye and (B) the left eye.
CMV retinitis with right optic neuritis and bilateral macular edema was diagnosed. Since the patient was hesitant to accept frequent intravitreal injections of ganciclovir, it was decided to administer oral valganciclovir with an induction dose of 900 mg twice a day for 3 weeks and a weekly adjuvant intravitreal injection of MTX 400 µg/0.1 mL unilateral in OD, the more severely affected eye, for 1 month.
Best corrected visual acuity improved to 20/400 (1.3 logMAR units) after four MTX injections and to 20/63 (0.5 logMAR units) OS a month later. Indirect ophthalmoscopy revealed resolving disc swelling in OD [Figure 3] and follow-up optical coherence tomography revealed that macular edema had subsided in MTX-injected eyes, but persisted OS [Figure 4]. A maintenance dose of valganci-clovir 900 mg orally once a day was continued. No recurrence of macular edema OD and no ocular side effects were observed during the next 8 months of follow up.
Figure 3: The color fundus picture showed resolving disc swelling in the right eye 4 weeks after treatment. (For interpretation of the references to color in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the web version of this article.)
Figure 4: Four weeks after treatment, the optical coherence tomography follow-up showed that macular edema (A) subsided in intravitreal methotrexate-injected eyes but (B) persisted in the left eye.
In immunosuppressed patients, retinitis can result from hema-tological dissemination of reactivated CMV as well as from exoge-nously acquired CMV. Although CMV retinitis is the most common clinical complication of CMV reactivation in HIV-infected patients, it is only infrequently reported in HSCT recipients. However, preemptive ganciclovir therapy early after transplant[16] allows most HSCT recipients to survive life-threatening CMV infection during the early months (usually the first 3 months) after transplant, and hence late onset of CMV disease is being recognized more frequently.
In a study by Crippa et al,[8] CMV retinitis was found to be a late complication of HSCT and was mainly seen in patients with antecedent CMV reactivation or disease. The median time of diagnosis of CMV retinitis was 251 days (range, 106–356 days). Similarly, our patient presented with CMV viremia with gastrointestinal manifestation within 7 weeks of HSCT, and developed visual symptoms 6 months after HSCT.
At onset, CMV retinitis may show only a few symptoms, providing scant evidence of the infection's potential to cause severe visual loss.[9] The presence of symptoms is often related to the retinal location involved. CMV retinitis affecting the posterior pole is more often symptomatic than peripherally located retinitis. Silverstein et al[13] reported prominent loss of vision associated with CME in seven eyes with CMV retinitis in AIDS patients. In each patient, the area of retinitis involved zone 1. Our patient also showed zone 1 involvement in both eyes, which was indicative of the development of worse macular complications. Furthermore, CMV papillitis, a very unusual complication of CMV infection causing disc swelling and less reversible visual loss, has even been reported in an immunocompetent patient. In our patient, optic disc swelling resolved after 1 month of therapy, but with sequelae of occluded retinal vessels. Immune-mediated vascular damage may play a role in papillitis. As in our case, this patient too did not seek medical treatment until severe vision loss caused by macular and papillary involvement occurred.
Ganciclovir is an acyclovir analog and was the first antiviral agent to be approved for the treatment of CMV disease; it remains the first-line treatment for CMV infection and CMV disease in transplant recipients.[17] The incidence of CMV disease occurring within the first 100 days post-transplant was significantly less with ganciclovir compared to placebo[18] and patients receiving ganci-clovir had significantly greater overall survival than the placebo group at both 100 days and 180 days post-transplant.[19]
IV ganciclovir (Cytovene-IV, Roche, Basel Switzerland) was approved in 1989 for treating CMV retinitis in AIDS patients. To circumvent the risks and inconvenience associated with the use of an indwelling catheter for IV administration, an oral formulation was developed. Oral ganciclovir represented a major advance in maintenance therapy and prophylaxis in case of CMV retinitis. However, the low bioavailability (approximately 5%) and the high pill burden from the TID regimen are significant limitations. Based on the model exemplified by valacyclovir, a prodrug was developed to improve the bioavailability of oral ganciclovir. Valganciclovir has an oral bioavailability of around 60%. It was approved in 2000 for the treatment of CMV retinitis in AIDS patients and was later approved for the prophylactic treatment of CMV in certain SOT recipients. Once-daily oral administration of valganciclovir 900 mg provides systemic exposure to ganciclovir that is equivalent to that provided by once-daily administration of IV ganciclovir 5 mg/kg. Besides systemic ganciclovir, intravitreal injection/implant of gan-ciclovir in the affected eye is also significantly efficacious in treating CMV retinitis. The elimination half-life of ganciclovir from the vitreous humor after intravitreal injection was estimated to be 13.3 hours in CMV retinitis patients. Intravitreal ganciclovir concentrations were estimated to remain above the ID50 (average 0.66 µg/mL) of the virus for about 62 hours after a single 200 µg intravitreal dose.[20] In clinical practice, injections are given two or three times per week during the induction phase, followed by once a week injections during long-term maintenance therapy. Frequent intra-vitreal injections appear to be a burden, as exemplified by the hesitation of the patient in our case. Patients treated with an intravitreal injection and implant alone are also at a significantly greater risk of developing CMV disease in the contralateral eye or in other organs.[21]
Although CMV retinitis patients, especially those with only midperipheral lesions, have shown a good response to IV ganci-clovir or oral valganciclovir treatment, complicated macular and papillary lesions have less favorable prognosis with these formulations according to current studies.[12],[13],[14],[15] Previous results have shown that ganciclovir alone is less effective for CME in CMV retinitis probably because of the high inflammatory component of CME. CME can even developed in the setting of resolving CMV retinitis in non-AIDS patients.[14] It also causes vision loss as a result of immune-recovery syndrome in HIV patients with a history of CMV retinitis on highly active antiretroviral therapy.[15] Our patient's hemograms showed relative immunocompetence during the ocular disease course. It is likely that he delayed seeking medical help until severe visual impairment occurred, when he was under an immune reconstitution status. Intravitreal injection of steroids seems a reasonable approach to treat the inflammation associated with macular edema and papillitis in CMV retinitis. However, CMV reactivation is a big concern.
MTX is a competitive inhibitor of dihydrofolate reductase. It has immunomodulatory and antiproliferative (antineoplasm) properties through multiple mechanisms. One of its major anti-inflammatory actions is inhibition of aminoimidazole carbox-amide ribonucleotide transformylase/IMP cyclohydrolase resulting in increased intracellular and extracellular adenosine, which is a potent inhibitor of inflammation and modulates cell trafficking.[22] Adenosine also suppresses the action of proinflammatory mediators tumor necrosis factor-α, interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, macrophage inflammatory protein-1α, leukotriene B4, and nitric oxide, and enhances the production of the anti-inflammatory mediators IL-10 and IL-1 receptor antagonists. Ultimately, adenosine leads to the resolution of inflammation by downregulating macrophage activation and promoting a shift from a TH1toaTH2 response.[23] Systemic MTX has been included in many standard treatments for a variety of malignancies.[24] It is also a commonly used steroid-sparing agent for the treatment of systemic inflammatory disorders, such as systemic lupus erythematosus, rheumatoid arthritis, psoriasis, and a range of noninfectious uveitides.[25] Various ophthalmic inflammatory conditions response to intravitreal MTX therapy, and intraocular lymphomas associated with primary central nervous system lymphoma have been effectively and safely treated with intravitreal injections of MTX. A 400 mg concentration of MTX in human eyes appears to be clinically well tolerated.[26] The half-life of MTX in vitreous fluid was estimated to be 12.4–21.5 hours by assuming first-order elimination kinetics. Although the concentration was still high 24 hours after intravitreal injection (69.94–82.89µM), there was no ocular toxicity. A single intravitreal injection of 400 µg of MTX yielded antineoplasm levels in the vitreous for more than 72 hours.[27] A MTX 400 µg/0.1 mL weekly injection is universally applied in eyes with primary intraocular lymphoma. Moreover, in eyes with uveitis and CME, a single or few injections are highly curative. A study documented 76% control of inflammation and 56% corticosteroid-sparing effect in patients with various ocular inflammatory conditions treated with MTX.[28] Hardwig et al reported retention of visual acuity in 12 of 16 study eyes with conditions other than primary intraocular lymphoma after one single injection.[29] Taylor et al reported that 67% (10/15) of patients with uveitic CME responded to treatment at 1 month and 87% (13/15) by 3 months after one single injection. The median time to relapse was 4 months.[30] In our patient, the macular edema in OD responded rapidly to weekly intravitreal MTX 400 mg/0.1 mL injections for 1 month compared with the other eye, mainly due to the anti-inflammatory action and downregulation of macrophage activation by MTX. Moreover, the papillitis also underwent remission, although this might have been achieved by the induction treatment of oral valganciclovir alone.
The macular edema in OD did not recur after four intravitreal injections of MTX, while that in the OS persisted during the 8-month follow up. No ocular side effects were observed in the MTX-injected eye. Our case revealed the possible efficacy and safety of MTX as a corticosteroid-sparing adjuvant intravitreal injection in combination with valganciclovir (which has high oral bioavail-ability) for macular edema and for improving visual acuity. Further studies are needed to confirm our results.
Chumbley LC, Robertson DM, Smith TF, Campbell RJ. Adult cytomegalovirus inclusion retino-uveitis. Am J Ophthalmol. 1975;80:807–816.
Baumal CR, Levin AV, Kavalec CC, Petric M, Khan H, Read SE. Screening for cytomegalovirus retinitis in children. Arch Pediatr Adolesc Med. 1996;150: 1186–1192.
Gandhi MK, Khanna R. Human cytomegalovirus: clinical aspects, immune regulation, and emerging treatments. Lancet Infect Dis. 2004;4:725–738.
Murray HW, Knox DL, Green WR, Susel RM. Cytomegalovirus retinitis in adults. A manifestation of disseminated viral infection. Am J Med. 1977;63:574–584.
Christensen L, Beeman HW, Allen A. Cytomegalic inclusion retinitis in an adult. A clinical, histopathologic, and ultrastructural. Arch Ophthalmol. 1971;86: 44–57.
Smith ME. Retinal involvement in adult cytomegalic inclusion disease. Arch Ophthalmol. 1964;72:44–49.
Gross JG, Bozzette SA, Mathews WC, et al. Longitudinal study of cytomegalo-virus retinitis in acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Ophthalmology. 1990;97:681–686.
Guembel HO, Ohrloff C. Opportunistic infections of the eye in immunocom-promised patients. Ophthalmologica. 1997;211(suppl 1):53–61.
Crippa F, Corey L, Chuang EL, Sale G, Boeckh M. Virological, clinical, and ophthalmologic features of cytomegalovirus retinitis after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Clin Infect Dis. 2001;32:214–219.
Jabs DA, Green WR, Fox R, Polk BF, Bartlett JG. Ocular manifestations of acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Ophthalmology. 1989;96:1092–1099.
Studies of the Ocular Complications of AIDS Research Group. Mortality in patients with the acquired immune deficiency syndrome treated with either foscarnet or ganciclovir for cytomegalovirus retinitis. N Engl J Med. 1992;326: 213–220.
Gross JG, Sadun AA, Wiley CA, Freeman WR. Severe visual loss related to isolated peripapillary retinal and optic nerve cytomegalovirus infection. Am J Ophthalmol. 1989;108:691–698.
Silverstein BE, Smith JH, Sykes SO, Jones MR, Schwartz D, Cunningham Jr ET. Cystoid macular edema associated with cytomegalovirus retinitis in patients with the acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Am J Ophthalmol. 1998;125: 411–415.
Maguire AM, Nichols CW, Crooks GW. Visual loss in cytomegalovirus retinitis caused by cystoid macular edema in patients without the acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Ophthalmology. 1996;103:601–605.
Karavellas MP, Plummer DJ, Macdonald JC, et al. Incidence of immune recovery vitritis in cytomegalovirus retinitis patients following institution of successful highly active antiretroviral therapy. J Infect Dis. 1999;179:697–700.
Singh N. Preemptive therapy versus universal prophylaxis with ganciclovir for cytomegalovirus in solid organ transplant recipients. Clin Infect Dis. 2001;32: 742–751.
Razonable RR, Emery VC. 11th Annual Meeting of the IHMF (International Herpes Management Forum). Management of CMV infection and disease in transplant patients. Herpes. 2004;11:77–86.
Goodrich JM, Bowden RA, Fisher L, Keller C, Schoch G, Meyers JD. Ganciclovir prophylaxis to prevent cytomegalovirus disease after allogeneic marrow transplant. Ann Intern Med. 1993;118:173–178.
Boeckh M, Gooley TA, Myerson D, Cunningham T, Schoch G, Bowden RA. Cytomegalovirus pp65 antigenemia-guided early treatment with ganciclovir versus ganciclovir at engraftment after allogeneic marrow transplantation: a randomized double-blind study. Blood. 1996;88:4063–4071.
Henry K, Cantrill H, Fletcher C, Chinnock BJ, Balfour Jr HH. Use of intravitreal ganciclovir (dihydroxy propoxymethyl guanine) for cytomegalovirus retinitis in a patient with AIDS. Am JOphthalmol. 1987;103:17–23.
Musch DC, Martin DF, Gordon JF, Davis MD, Kuppermann BD. Treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis with a sustained-release ganciclovir implant. The Ganciclovir Implant Study Group. N Engl JMed. 1997;337:83–90.
SzabÓ C, Scott GS, Virág L, et al. Suppression of macrophage inflammatory protein (MIP)-1alpha production and collagen-induced arthritis by adenosine receptor agonists. Br J Pharmacol. 1998;125:379–387.
Bouma MG, Stad RK, van den Wildenberg FA, Buurman WA. Differential regulatory effects of adenosine on cytokine release by activated human mono-cytes. J Immunol. 1994;153:4159–4168.
Fleming GF, Schilsky RL. Antifolates: the next generation. Semin Oncol. 1992;19:707–719.
Djalilian AR, Nussenblatt RB. Immunosuppression in uveitis. Ophthalmol Clin North Am. 2002;15:395–404.
Smith JR, Rosenbaum JT, Wilson DJ, et al. Role of intravitreal methotrexate in the management of primary central nervous system lymphoma with ocular involvement. Ophthalmology. 2002;109:1709–1716
Nakauchi Y, Takase H, Sugita S, et al. Concurrent administration of intravenous systemic and intravitreal methotrexate for intraocular lymphoma with central nervous system involvement. Int J Hematol. 2010;92:179–185.
Samson CM, Waheed N, Baltatzis S, Foster CS. Methotrexate therapy for chronic noninfectious uveitis: analysis of a case series of 160 patients. Ophthalmology. 2001;108:1134–1139.
Hardwig PW, Pulido JS, Erie JC, Baratz KH, Buettner H. Intraocular methotrexate in ocular diseases other than primary central nervous system lymphoma. Am J Ophthalmol. 2006;142:883–885.
Taylor SR, Habot-Wilner Z, Pacheco P, Lightman SL. Intraocular methotrexate in the treatment of uveitis and uveitic cystoid macular edema. Ophthalmology. 2009;116:797–801.
Successful gene therapy of mice with congenital erythropoietic porphyria. J Am Acad Dermatol. Treatment of congenital erythropoietic porphyria in children by allogeneic stem cell transplantation: BMT is currently reserved for those severely affected individuals who have a matched bone marrow donor. See Molecular Genetics for information on allelic variants detected in this gene.
Measurements of subnormal red cell uroporphyrinogen decarboxylase activity and urinary, fecal, and erythrpooietic porphyrin analyses in this patient and his 7 children indicated classic features of familial porphyria cutanea tarda Dystrophic nails possibly the only manifestation. However, individuals with porphyria cutanea tarda may develop skin lesions, and these lesions resemble the skin lesions found in CEP.
After exposure to light, the skin may become itchy and red. As CEP is a very rare condition, most general practitioners will have little experience of the condition. Lentivirus-mediated transfer of the human UROS cDNA into hematopoietic stem cells HSCs from the mouse model Uros mut resulted in a complete and long-term enzymatic, metabolic, and phenotypic correction of the disease, favored by a survival advantage of corrected red blood cells.
In those receiving transfusions: News and articles Systemic messenger RNA as an etiological treatment for acute intermittent porphyria. Inducing iron deficiency improves erythropoiesis and photosensitivity in congenital erythropoieric porphyria.
