BCS Annual Conference 2018 - Exhibitors and Sponsors | Online Registration by Cvent
The British Heart Foundation is a key supporter of the BCS Annual Conference.
Stand no: TBC Tel: 0300 330 3322
An integral part of the conference, providing delegates with the opportunity to converse with industry experts about development and research in cardiovascular products and innovation. We thank our sponsor and exhibitors for their support.
Company: BACPR
Stand no: Charity Stand C10
Tel: 01252 854510
Website: www.bacpr.com
British Association for Cardiovascular Disease Prevention and Rehabilitation (BACPR) is a membership organisation for health and exercise professionals across the UK working in cardiovascular disease prevention and rehabilitation.
Bayer: advancing life
At Bayer, we're excited about the future and all its possibilities. Advancing health and nutrition is what we do best and care about most. The solutions we create today will advance life tomorrow, and help people and the planet to thrive. For over 120 years, Bayer has been researching and developing innovative medications and new therapeutic approaches that help to make a difference to people's lives, with a notable focus on cardiovascular disease, oncology, women's health and ophthalmology. Bayer continues to support and address the needs of the NHS and the clinical community through partnerships and ongoing research, working in a wide range of areas on new treatment approaches.
Stand no: C16 Tel: 0207 5016380
Email​: David.Hollister@MarkAllenGroup.com
Website: www.magonlinelibrary.com/toc/bjca/current
The leading clinical peer reviewed journal for UK Cardiac Nurses working across primary, secondary and tertiary care. The clinical editorials are a key resource for educating Cardiac Nurses. The journal is supported by the British Association for Nursing in Cardiovascular care and the British Heart Foundation.
Company: Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer Alliance
Website: www.bms.co.uk & www.pfizer.co.uk
Stand no: C04 Tel: 020 7345 5185
Email: Info@bsecho.org
Join BSE at stand C04 to learn about our brand new Level 1 accreditation and exciting developments with our Echo Quality Framework.
Company: Cardiac Risk in the Young
Stand no: C12 Tel: 01737 363222
Company: European Society of Cardiology
Stand no: 08 Tel: +33 492947600
Email: jnoslier@escardio.org
Stand no: 17 Tel: 07884866785
Email: Leanne.bryant@inhealthgroup.com
InHealth is the UK's largest specialist provider of diagnostic and healthcare solutions. Our mission is to make healthcare better, we do this by offering a range of solutions to hospitals and commissioners across the NHS and the independent sector.
Stand no: C02 Tel: 020 7091 3638
Email: matthew.huckle@mariecurie.org.uk
Stand no: 32 Tel: 020 7091 3638
Health knows no bounds At Philips, we help create seamless solutions that connect people, technology and data. Because today health knows no bounds, and neither should healthcare. See how Philips is removing the bounds of care at: philips.co.uk/healthcare. There's always a way to make life better.
Company: Renew Health Limited
Stand no: 18 Tel: 00353906465460
Email: sile.fuery@renewgroup.eu
Website: www.renewhealthlimited.com
Renew Health Limited, the multi award winning connected health medtech company established in 2014, is committed to delivering exciting healthcare solutions to improve patient's lives. Its portfolio includes Zensor™ device to detect Atrial Fibrillation; Renew™ Enhanced Circulation a non-invasive treatment for those suffering from angina and UltraLinq™ a cloud-based medical imaging and data management system.
Company: REVIVED-BCIS2 TRIAL
Stand no: C14 Tel: 020 7927 2665
Website: revived.lshtm.ac.uk
With only 270 patients of the 700 target left to recruit, REVIVED-BCIS2 is already the largest randomised trial ever to investigate the role of PCI in ischaemic left ventricular dysfunction. Come and catch up with the team for all the latest trial developments, support and discussion of all things REVIVED!
Company: Rightangled Ltd
Stand no: Tel: 0300 330 3322
Email: a@rightangled.co
Website: www.rightangled.co
We are a CQC registered healthcare provider for genetic screening and diagnostic. Our flagship service is the Heart DNA Test, which is a specialised cardiac test offered for Doctors who are looking to move their practice into the personalised medicine era.
Our service comes with an online platform that enables practitioners to provide their assessment online and in a telemedicine way.
Tel: 01483505515
Email: Michael.mcallister@sanofi.com
From prevention to treatment, we strive to transform scientific innovation into healthcare solutions, in human vaccines, rare diseases, multiple sclerosis, oncology, immunology, infectious diseases, diabetes and cardiovascular solutions and consumer healthcare. Every day, our employees are committed to make a difference to your daily life wherever you live and enable you to enjoy a healthier life.
Company: Wisepress Ltd
Stand no: 42 Tel: 0208 715 1812
Email: danny.wood@wisepress.com
Europe's leading conference bookseller, has a complete range of books and journals relevant to the themes of the meeting. Books can be purchased at the stand or posted to you – Wisepress will deliver worldwide. In addition to attending 200 conferences per year, Wisepress has a comprehensive bookshop online with great offers.
Many people avoid going to the dentist because they experienced traumatic care as a child, suffered painful procedures as an adult, or are influenced by the stereotypes they see on TV and movies. Even when they experience warning signs like pain in the mouth, many people avoid seeking treatment because of the fear they experience. At our office we understand these feelings and want to help.
Whether you just need a routine cleaning or a brand-new smile, we offer sedation dentistry to make your experience comfortable and relaxing.
In our state of the art office, our staff at Baton Rouge Oral and Facial Surgery & Dental Implant Center is highly trained in assisting with Intravenous (IV) sedation, or out-patient general anesthesia. IV sedation is an excellent option for relieving moderate to high levels of anxiety while allowing the patient to experience complete relaxation during treatment with no memory of their procedure. IV sedation dentistry takes the guesswork out of fear management because the drugs administered through an IV are far more effective due to our ability to control them directly. Your heart rate, blood pressure, blood oxygen level, and breathing will be monitored continuously during and after your procedure.
Yuxiang Zhou, Ph.D. - Mayo Clinic Faculty Profiles - Mayo Clinic Research
Yuxiang Zhou, Ph.D.
Zhou.Yuxiang@mayo.edu
The primary research and clinical interests of Yuxiang Zhou, Ph.D., are the development, evaluation and application of magnetic resonance (MR) and positron emission tomography (PET) techniques for disease detection, diagnosis, monitoring and management. These techniques include, but are not limited to, anatomical MRI, perfusion MRI, diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), BOLD functional MRI (fMRI), PET and magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) for neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders and breast diseases.
Dr. Zhou is leading a research group that helps neurosurgeons develop real-time imaging tools for image-guided surgery, with a goal to improve resection completeness and decrease surgical complications. In addition, Dr. Zhou and his colleagues have developed and implemented brain MR elastography on a Siemens platform for intracranial tumor assessment, a technique that is currently available at only a few institutions throughout the U.S.
Medical image acquisition, optimization and post-processing
Advanced neuro MRI — DTI, DSC, DCE, MRS, fMRI
Interventional hybrid MRI for neurosurgical applications
Simultaneous PET and MRI
Imaging on cancel applications
Dr. Zhou's research is focused on improving the value and practicality of quantitative imaging biomarkers by reducing variability across devices, sites, patients and time.
MS - Computer Science University Of Houston-Clear Lake
Post Doctoral Fellowship Mechanical Engineering Department and Texas Center for Superconductivity, University of Houston
Visiting Scholar Mechanical Engineering Department & Texas Center for Superconductivity, University of Houston
Podiatrist near West Melbourne | Local Podiatry Clinic | Northern Spinal
West Melbourne Podiatrists
As one of Melbourne's leading Podiatry clinics, we are conveniently located near West Melbourne to help treat any feet concerns you may be having.
Our team provide care to those in West Melbourne and surrounding communities.
Looking for a local podiatrist near West Melbourne?
At our podiatry clinic near West Melbourne, you are given a thorough assessment to allow clear diagnosis and prescribe the best treatment for your needs. Our professional podiatry team will then ensure you receive the most appropriate and effective treatment to help you achieve optimal health and function.
OUR APPROACH TO PODIATRY near West Melbourne:
As one of the leading Podiatry clinics in the northern suburbs near West Melbourne the goal of our highly-skilled and experienced podiatrists is to provide care and advice for many different foot conditions, and use the most effective treatments to reduce your pain and discomfort, and have you walking pain free once again.
For 4 weeks receive unlimited Premium digital access to the FT’s trusted, award-winning business news
Digital
Be informed with the essential
news and opinion
MyFT – track the topics most important to you
FT Weekend – full access to the weekend content
Mobile & Tablet Apps – download to read on the go
Gift Article – share up to 10 articles a month with family, friends and colleagues
Print
FT print edition delivered Monday – Saturday along with ePaper access
Delivery to your home or office Monday to Saturday
FT Weekend paper – a stimulating blend of news and lifestyle features
ePaper access – the digital replica of the printed newspaper
Team or Enterprise
Premium FT.com access for multiple users, with integrations & admin tools
Group Subscription
Premium Digital access, plus:
Convenient access for groups of users
Integration with third party platforms and CRM systems
Usage based pricing and volume discounts for multiple users
Subscription management tools and usage reporting
SAML-based single sign-on (SSO)
Dedicated account and customer success teams
Or, if you are already a subscriber
Sign in
Are you a student or a professor?
Check if your university has an FT membership to read for free.
Check my access
Related Posts
Lee Health Continues To Advance Its Innovative Robotic Program; Brings First ExcelsiusGPS® Robot To Southwest Florida – Florida Hospital News And Healthcare Report – South Florida Hospital News
by NewsReporter
April 14, 2022
0
April 14, 2022 — Lee Health announces a first of its kind robotic surgery in Southwest Florida for minimally-invasive spine and brain procedures. Lee Health has added the ExcelsiusGPS® Robot to its robotic-assisted surgery program, which features the most advanced technology in the field of robotic surgery. The ExcelsiusGPS® is...
About 1 In 4 Adults Has An Often-Missed Liver Disorder Linked To Higher Heart Disease Risk – American Heart Association
by NewsReporter
April 14, 2022
0
Statement Highlights: It is estimated that about one in four adults worldwide has an abnormal build-up of fat in the liver, called non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). NAFLD can lead to permanent liver damage, and heart disease is the leading cause of death in people with fatty liver disease. Because...
Healthy Living: New Drug Providing Hope For Kids With Rett Syndrome – 9 & 10 News – 9&10 News
by NewsReporter
April 13, 2022
0
You watched your child hit all of their milestones: crawling, walking and even babbling their first words. But then, as they continue to grow, they start rapidly losing their coordination, ability to speak and the use of their hands. This is what happens to children with Rett Syndrome. It’s a...
Cost Of Living: See How Much Your Spending Has Increased Over The Past Five Years – Sky News
by NewsReporter
April 13, 2022
0
Prices have increased faster over the past 12 months than at any time in the previous 30 years, putting pressure on already stretched household budgets.The latest increases have been driven by rising household energy and fuel costs. But how much has your individual spending gone up in the past five...
© 2021 Comal County News Online
Navigate Site
Disclosure
Privacy Policy
DMCA Policy
CCPA
Medical Disclaimer
Follow Us
No Result
View All Result
Home
DMCA Policy
Medical Disclaimer
Privacy Policy
Disclosure
CCPA
Terms of Use
© 2021 Comal County News Online
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.
Cookie SettingsAccept All
Manage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Cookie
Duration
Description
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
Every month, we publish a REDCap tip, shortcut, or best practice to help you get the most out of the installation. With 2015 coming to an end, we are taking a look back to see what tips readers found most valuable this year....
With the support of the ITHS Rising Stars program, Dr. Sujata Pradhan is using activity monitors to help improve treatment options for people with Parkinson's disease. ...
A look into the future of mobile healthcare apps and how mPOWEr, a new app kickstarted by ITHS, is changing the way doctors and patients monitor surgical incisions....
ITHS Study Supports Policy Forum Article in AMA Journal of Ethics
Findings from an Institute of Translational Health Sciences study were used to support a new policy-related article in the AMA Journal of Ethics. ...
Laura Fraade-Blanar, an ITHS TL1 trainee, hopes her study can arm families and caregivers with hard facts around the role dementia plays in car accident risk....
When an unexpected event left Dr. Jeannine McCune pressed for time, she turned to the ITHS Research Coordination Center to help keep her NIH-funded study on intravenous busulfan metabolism on track....
An Institute of Translational Health Sciences-supported study that was published in Science Translational Medicine was recently profiled by Dr. Francis Collins on his National Institutes of Health Director's Blog. This multi-site Phase 1 study examined the effectiveness of an experimental vaccine for respiratory syncytial virus...
Does Melatonin really work for sleep issues? - 50BOLD
Sleeping problems are a major concern in the United States. It's estimated that around 30% of adults suffer from insomnia, and an even higher percentage experience occasional short sleep of less than 7 hours per night. Black and brown people are more likely to work night shifts or irregular or extra hours that can throw off their sleep schedule and their ability to sync their circadian rhythm (the body's internal clock) with the local day-night cycle.
The National Sleep Foundation's Sleep in America Poll gathers responses about key aspects of sleep behavior. The poll highlighted distinct responses from racial and ethnic groups and found that Black respondents reported the least amount of sleep on weekdays.
These days we are hearing more and more about how many folks are using melatonin as a sleep aid. The supplement has grown in popularity over recent years with some three million Americans now using it.
The human body produces melatonin naturally. It is a sleep hormone that is produced by the pineal gland in your brain but also found in other areas, such as your eyes, bone marrow, and gut. Melatonin production does, however, decrease with age. Because of this, melatonin supplements may be helpful for older adults who are having trouble falling asleep.
Darkness triggers the body to make more melatonin, which signals the body to sleep. Light decreases melatonin production and signals the body to be awake. Some people who have trouble sleeping have low levels of melatonin. Many factors may cause low melatonin levels at night, such as alcohol consumption, smoking, caffeine consumption, shift work, aging, certain medications, and exposure to too much light at night — including blue light (computers or the sun).
It's thought that adding melatonin from supplements might help folks sleep by normalizing their internal clocks. Melatonin supplements are popular among people with insomnia. They can also be purchased without a prescription and are relatively safe for short-term use for up to 2 years. But melatonin should be treated as you would any sleeping pill and should be used under your doctor's supervision.
Melatonin can cause:
Less common melatonin side effects might include the worsening of feelings of depression, mild tremor, seizure disorders, bleeding disorders, mild anxiety, abdominal cramps, irritability, disorientation. Melatonin can also raise blood pressure in people who are taking certain medications to control blood pressure.
Don't use melatonin if you have epilepsy, or autoimmune, kidney, or liver disease.
Melatonin might lower blood sugar levels. Taking melatonin along with diabetes medications might cause blood sugar to drop too low. Monitor your blood sugar closely.
The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) doesn't regulate melatonin as a drug. Because of this, there's limited information on the optimal, safe dosage of melatonin. Melatonin typically takes 1 to 2 hours to work, so it's often taken up to 2 hours before bedtime.
Some melatonin supplements are slow-release and others are fast-release. Some melatonin products can be placed under the tongue or in the cheek to absorb faster. Melatonin is also used in creams, gargles, and gels. If you're looking to try melatonin for the first time, it may be best to begin with a lower dose.
Speak with a healthcare provider to find out what type of product and dose might be best for your specific sleep issue.
If you take melatonin and notice that it isn't helping you fall asleep or causes unwanted side effects, stop taking it and speak with your doctor. They can perhaps recommend other strategies to help you get a good night's sleep.
Peds Neurology News, Articles and Journals | page:22
Scoliotic deformity and asymptomatic cervical syrinx in a 9 year old with caudal regression syndrome Full Text Journal of Pediatric Neurosciences, February 4, 2013 422
Spinal cord involvement in a child with familial hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis Full Text Journal of Pediatric Neurosciences, February 4, 2013 423
Pediatric Pseudotumor Cerebri Associated With Low Serum Levels of Vitamin A Journal of Child Neurology, February 1, 2013 Clinical Article
SMART Syndrome (Stroke-Like Migraine Attacks After Radiation Therapy) in Adult and Pediatric Patients Journal of Child Neurology, February 1, 2013 Clinical Article
Mutations in PRRT2 result in familial infantile seizures with heterogeneous phenotypes including febrile convulsions and probable SUDEP Epilepsy Research, February 1, 2013 Review Article
Parental satisfaction and seizure outcome after corpus callosotomy in patients with infantile or early childhood onset epilepsy Seizure - European Journal of Epilepsy, January 31, 2013 Clinical Article
Elevated temperature and 6-7 year outcome of neonatal encephalopathy Annals of Neurology , January 31, 2013 Review Article
The frequency modulated auditory evoked response (FMAER), a technical advance for study of childhood language disorders: cortical source localization and selected case studies Full Text BMC Neurology, January 31, 2013 Review Article
The CD95/CD95L pathway is involved in phagocytosis-induced cell death of monocytes and may account for sustained inflammation in neonates Pediatric Research, January 31, 2013 Review Article
Posterior reversible encephalopathy syndrome in a child with autoimmune lymphoproliferative syndrome: Case report and review of literature Full Text Journal of Pediatric Neurosciences, January 31, 2013 432
Validation of the Screening Tool for the Assessment of Malnutrition in Paediatrics (STAMP) in patients with spinal cord injuries (SCIs) Spinal Cord, January 30, 2013 Clinical Article
Systematic Review of the Clinimetric Properties of Laboratory- and Field-Based Aerobic and Anaerobic Fitness Measures in Children With Cerebral Palsy Archives of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, January 30, 2013 Evidence Based Medicine
Reliability and Responsiveness of the Gross Motor Function Measure-88 in Children With Cerebral Palsy Physical Therapy, January 30, 2013 Clinical Article
Presleep Activities and Time of Sleep Onset in Children Pediatrics, January 30, 2013 Review Article
Validation of rapid neurodevelopmental assessment for 2- to 5-year-old children in bangladesh Pediatrics, January 30, 2013 Review Article
Levodopa Does Not Improve Function in Individuals with Dystonic Cerebral Palsy Journal of Child Neurology, January 29, 2013 Clinical Article
Prognosticators of persistent symptoms following pediatric concussion a systematic review pcs prognosticators after pediatric concussion JAMA Pediatrics, January 29, 2013 Review Article
New Bladder Cancer Therapy for Patients Unresponsive to Standard Treatment | health.am
Feb 26, 2008 Viewed: 565
"When the standard treatment does not work, currently the only option is surgical removal of the bladder - something that, for all patients, is unappealing, and for some sicker patients is not even possible. With this study, we hope to find an effective second line medical option for these patients," says Dr. James McKiernan, director of urologic oncology at the Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital and Columbia University Medical Center, and vice chairman of the Department of Urology and assistant professor of urology at Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.
The study is open to patients with recurrent bladder cancer that has not responded to standard therapy - BCG (bacillus Calmette-Guerin) treatment.
The Herbert Irving Comprehensive Cancer Center at Columbia University Medical Center and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital encompasses pre-clinical and clinical research, treatment, prevention and education efforts in cancer. The Cancer Center was initially funded by the NCI in 1972 and became an National Cancer Institute (NCI)-designated comprehensive cancer center in 1979. The designation recognizes the Center's collaborative environment and expertise in harnessing translational research to bridge scientific discovery to clinical delivery, with the ultimate goal of successfully introducing novel diagnostic, therapeutic and preventive approaches to cancer. For more information, visit www. hiccc.columbia.edu.
NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital - based in New York City - is the nation's largest not-for-profit, non-sectarian hospital, with 2,242 beds. It provides state-of-the-art inpatient, ambulatory and preventive care in all areas of medicine at five major centers: NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center, Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital of NewYork-Presbyterian, NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Allen Pavilion and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Westchester Division. One of the largest and most comprehensive health-care institutions in the world, the Hospital is committed to excellence in patient care, research, education and community service. It ranks sixth in U.S.News & World Report's guide to "America's Best Hospitals," ranks first on New York magazine's "Best Hospitals" survey, has the greatest number of physicians listed in New York magazine's "Best Doctors" issue, and is included among Solucient's top 15 major teaching hospitals. The Hospital is ranked with among the lowest mortality rates for heart attack and heart failure in the country, according to a 2007 U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) report card. The Hospital has academic affiliations with two of the nation's leading medical colleges: Weill Cornell Medical College and Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. For more information, visit www. nyp.org.
Columbia University Medical Center provides international leadership in pre-clinical and clinical research, in medical and health sciences education, and in patient care. The medical center trains future leaders and includes the dedicated work of many physicians, public health professionals, dentists, nurses, and scientists at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, the Mailman School of Public Health, the College of Dental Medicine, the School of Nursing, the biomedical departments of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, and allied research centers and institutions.
Three-Year Data Help Forge Path to T-DM1-Based Deescalation in HER2+ BC
Biomarker Analysis IDs Predictive, Prognostic Factors
Rivaroxaban May Cause Higher GI Bleeding Than Other NOACs
Nonacog Alfa Deemed Safe and Effective in Hemophilia B
Underwater endoscopic mucosal resection may be an option colorectal lesions
Baseline Imaging Recommended in Merkel Cell Carcinoma Patients
Key clinical point: Colorectal cancer can be divided into five DNA methylation subtypes that predict molecular and clinical behavior and may offer future therapeutic targets.
Major finding: The mean age of patients with CpG island methylator phenotype (CIMP)–high colorectal cancer was 75.2 years, compared with 61.9 years for patients with CIMP-negative disease (P less than .0001).
Study details: A genomic study involving 216 unselected colorectal cancers.
Disclosures: The study was funded by the National Health and Medical Research Council, the U.S. National Institutes of Health, Pathology Queensland, and others. The investigators disclosed no conflicts of interest.
