Exemplary Attributes: How to Prepare for an Audit 发布时间:2014-03-14
Exemplary Attributes: How to Prepare for an Audit
Article three in this Journal of Oncology Practice series, "Quality Assurance and Educational Standards for Clinical Trial Sites" (Journal of Oncology Practice, November 2008) discussed two of the exemplary attributes of clinical trial sites suggested in the ASCO Statement on Minimum Standards and Exemplary Attributes of Clinical Trial Sites, published in the May 20, 2008, issue of Journal of Clinical Oncology. These attributes, quality assurance and formal maintenance of high educational standards, were defined, and their contribution to the optimum functioning of an effective clinical trial site was presented. This, the fourth article in the series, discusses one of the challenges to any research site implementing a clinical trial program—the audit process. Four experts weighed in on the audit process, the purpose of audits, and how to survive an audit.
As noted in the ASCO statement on minimum standards and exemplary attributes, a quality clinical trial research site must protect the welfare and rights of all trial participants. It also needs to assure that the data generated during the conduct of the trial are valid, can be used to draw valid conclusions, and will benefit patients with cancer now and in the future. This requires compliance with accepted standards for all aspects of clinical research, some of which have already been discussed in this series, including Good Clinical Practice guidelines and the use of standard operating procedures. The audit process is a way of assessing and ensuring this compliance.
Entities that conduct audits include the National Cancer Institute (NCI) for those sites participating in cooperative group-sponsored trials, the US Food and Drug Administration, and major cancer centers. Sites conducting research supported by a pharmaceutical company may be subject to monitoring visits by the trial sponsor. There are three general areas of concern in the audit process regardless of which entity is performing the audit: patient safety, including consent forms and institutional review board (IRB) activities; data collection and records; and the pharmacy and investigational drug supply. Most audits are conducted every three years, and if a site doesn't pass because there are significant issues, it will be reaudited within the year.
More frequent audits may be conducted for sites that accrue large numbers of patients. A given site may be audited several times a year by different groups, depending on the mix of trials it conducts.
Sites are usually notified several months in advance of the date an audit will take place. About a month before the audit, the site will be notified of the selected cases that will be reviewed. "I've been telling my staff I hope they'd prepared all along," says Marge Good, RN, BSN, MPH, OCN, Wichita Community Clinical Oncology Program, Wichita, Kansas, whose site recently underwent an audit.
Susan I. Devine, CCRP, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada, uses a prereview check sheet (see box) that was developed in-house. "I'm over the top," she says. "I know the results before the audit. From my perspective, I have always trained staff to work audit-ready. It's too hard to prepare in six weeks. We don't want surprises at audit." She notes that if they do find errors during a check of the named cases that will be audited, they correct them. "Anything you can fix before the auditor gets there is a good thing." She notes that at her hospital, they monitor quarterly, selecting one case per disease, "not to create more work for the research coordinators, but to help by finding any potentially serious systematic problems in the process early on." Good's group also performs internal audits, having a clinical research associate (CRA) examine two charts per week. Stephen S. Grubbs, MD, Principal Investigator, Helen F. Graham Cancer Center, Delaware Christiana Care CCOP, Newark, Delaware, says that it is the principal investigator (PI) who bears ultimate responsibility for the trial and all activities associated with it, including the audit. He agrees that if an error is detected, documented, and corrected, the auditors will not hold it against the site. Good says that this may not be true for all auditors. They may recognize you found the error and tried to correct it, but may still give you a deviation (a lesser versus a major) depending on the degree of significance.
Peter Paul Yu, MD, Palo Alto Medical Foundation, Mountain View, California, notes that a common pitfall in new practices is not having the IRB reapprove study documents in a timely fashion. Regulations require that study documents must be reapproved and redated annually, actually 1 day less than 1 year, rather than every 365 days. However, because most IRBs meet once a month, documents need to be submitted every 11 months for this annual review or the site may miss the deadline by a day or a week, which constitutes a deviation. Yu also points out that updates and changes to consent forms need to be approved within 90 days. It's also important for sites to communicate with trial sponsors (eg, to know when accrual to a study may need to be halted). Timely reporting of adverse events (AE) is also important, and local IRB rules concerning AE reporting requirements need to be documented in writing.
What Happens When the Auditors Are at Your Facility
Depending on the number of charts to be examined, audits may take 1 to 3 days. The make-up of the audit team varies with the entity conducting the audit. According to Good, Southwest Oncology Group audit teams generally include nurses or nurse CRAs. Frequently the physicians who participate are retired and want to keep involved," she says. All cooperative groups work similarly, observes Grubbs. The Cancer and Leukemia Group B, the cooperative group with which he is most familiar, sends teams that include both physicians and CRAs.
Devine explains that when the auditors arrive, they need a place to sit. It should not be in a busy area, and should not be where other medical records are kept. If medical records are computerized, the site needs to make sure the audit team has a place to work with a computer. Someone from the site should be available to facilitate finding the necessary records (eg, laboratory results). Small offices that still rely on paper records would do well to flag those items they know the audit team will need to inspect. Yu points out that the personnel most familiar with the patients and the IRB should be available to assist the auditors. Although physicians involved with the trial aren't expected to be interacting with auditors during the audit, they should be available to speak with auditors afterward when the findings are reviewed. He notes that auditors like to have the source documents immediately available and organized. It can be confusing if the multiple practice sites participating in a given trial organize their charts differently. He recommends color coding charts with different colors for progress reports, laboratory test results, and imaging test results, to help speed things up. Good agrees that tabbing and color-coding is helpful. She conducts audits herself for Southwest Oncology Group and North Central Cancer Treatment Group, and finds that most auditors like having a site staff person available to help find things, although there are teams that don't want anyone with them during the process.
In the category of patient safety, audit teams will determine that all consent forms were approved by the IRB, contain all necessary elements, and were signed before the patients were enrolled and treated. Good says that any revisions or amendments to protocols requiring reconsent also should have been documented. She says that this documentation might be sent to the auditors ahead of time, depending on the cooperative group. Grubbs calls patient rights and protections the number one concern. It is rare for a study to be shut down, he says but serious weaknesses in this area could cause an immediate shut down until IRB failures are corrected.
Selected cases are audited to ensure integrity of the data. Typically, 10% of cases, with a minimum of 10 cases, are examined. Once at the site, the auditors may request additional cases to examine about which the site has not been notified in advance. Auditors determine that patients were eligible, source documentation (eg, case report forms) are present, and that AE are reported. They will also determine if laboratory tests and evaluations of response were performed at the appropriate times. The pharmacies used to supply the investigational drugs are inspected to determine if the appropriate drug accountability forms were used, that drugs were stored properly by study and by type, and that investigational drugs only were administered to appropriately enrolled patients.
Handling of Investigational Drugs
Grubbs notes that auditors will check to see that investigational drugs provided by study sponsors were only used for the exact patients on a trial, and that on completion of the trial, leftover drugs were returned or destroyed as required, and that this is documented. Sometimes trials involve drugs that are already approved for a different indication. It is important to ensure that only the investigational supply provided for the study is used, not a commercially available formulation stocked in the pharmacy for patients not on the trial. Yu suggests that if a computerized drug ordering system is used, the investigational drug be clearly identified as a sponsored supplied medication in the ordering system if it is also commercially available. He observes that a common audit pitfall is not using the NCI's official drug accountability record forms. Each study needs its own form for each drug that is used. Auditors will also check the general security of the investigational drug storage area. The room or area should have restricted access, and be locked or secured.
When the audit is complete, the team will conduct an exit interview, meeting with the PI, lead clinical research coordinator, pharmacist—and as many others at the site working on the trials as possible—to talk about findings. This will be followed by a formal, written report. Yu says that although there is a limited opportunity to respond at the exit interview, the site must submit a written plan to correct any deficiencies that were noted during the audit.
An "acceptable" finding means there is very little or nothing wrong at the site. There might be some lesser deficiencies such as transcription or typographical errors, or something scribbled out instead of being crossed out with a single line and a date. "Major" deviations include a noneligible patient enrolled or elements missing from consent forms, or other findings that indicate there is not a good system in place to ensure patient safety or data integrity. Other major deviations include patients receiving an incorrect dose or a dose at the wrong time, response not being checked at the appropriate time, or other deviations that could affect patient care and the objectives of the study. Purposeful deviations or attempts to cover them up, says Good, could shut down a site.
"The worst thing you can do," observes Devine, "is to be defensive. Findings should be used as a learning experience." The appropriate response is to identify what the site can do to prevent the deviation from happening again, to avoid systems problems, and to improve performance. "Auditors are there to help improve processes," Devine adds. Grubbs concurs that the learning process is most important: "Appreciate the audit team. They are there not to penalize us, but to help us improve."
Case Preparation Check List*
Section CRA
Eligibility Confirm that
Protocol version date All eligibility criteria available and appropriate Yes No
Copy eligibility pages from above version date Appropriate version of eligibility criteria being used based on date of registration Yes No
Copy proof of each eligibility item All required specimens submitted and within required timing, do you have Fed X proof? Yes No
Staple eligibility proof to protocol criteria
Treatment Confirm that:
Copy MARs for in-patient treatment Initial treatment information is available and correct Yes No
Copy proof of initial treatment All investigational agent treatment is available and correct Yes No
Copy proof of all rx for investigational drugs Treatment information from other centers is available Yes No
Request rx info from other centers Treatment modifications are per protocol guidelines Yes No
Confirm BSA and drug doses Can you account for home meds? Yes No
Response Confirm that:
Best response Protocol response times were adhered to, check from roadmaps Yes No
Copy criteria proving response Response can be confirmed Yes No
Copy criteria proving relapse Measurements are available Yes No
Copy notice indicating death Death can be confirmed? Yes No
Toxicity Confirm that:
Copy D/C summaries for all admissions Any event considered a serious adverse event has been submitted Yes No
Copy proof of very serious toxicity (ADRs) Grade, type, duration of serious toxicity accurately recorded? Yes No
Abbreviations: MARs, medication administration records; rx, prescription; BSA, body surface area; D/C, discontinuation; ADR, adverse drug reaction.
*Adapted from a spread sheet provided by Susan Devine, CCRP, Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. The spread sheet also contains spaces to include additional comments on the following topics: Eligibility Issues, Treatment Issues, Response Issues, Toxicity Issues, Data Quality Issues.
上一篇: Preparing for Clinical Trial Data Audits	 下一篇: Quality assurance: Importance of systems and standard operating procedures
There’s growing proof that foods can activate and worsen a wide variety of health conditions—from allergy symptoms to painful joints. Identifying and eliminating troublemakers can reduce symptoms or at least help prevent them from growing worse. Elimination diets are widely recommended for uncovering food culprits. The details of the diet vary for different conditions and you should ask your doctor about your particular situation. Here is a basic outline of how an elimination diet works.
How an Elimination Diet Works
By removing specific foods and ingredients that you suspect are causing a reaction, you can pinpoint triggers and keep them off your plate—and out of your body. This helps eliminate a wide variety of food reactions. Trigger foods can push your immune system into overdrive causing digestive upset, fatigue, and a feeling of unease, as well as boosting inflammation, worsening eczema, rheumatoid arthritis, and other inflammatory conditions.
How to Use an Elimination Diet
An elimination diet is a four-step process. First, determine what could be causing problems. You may need to track your symptoms and diet for a week or more to find suspects.
Common food allergy and intolerance triggers include wheat, gluten-containing products, milk, eggs, citrus, nuts, and soy, as well as certain chemical food additives such as monosodium glutamate. Headache triggers can include the compound tyramine (found in many cheeses, processed meats, red wine, and other foods) as well as food additives such as nitrites and colorings. Foods that may worsen rheumatoid arthritis symptoms include red meat, sugar, fats, salt, caffeine, gluten, tomatoes, and eggplant. Eczema flare-ups may commonly be fueled by dairy, eggs, or nuts; but citrus, wheat, seafood, and food additives have also been implicated.
Having decided on the potential triggers, the next step is to eliminate them all for one to two weeks. Be sure to replace key nutrients and keep your diet balanced. If your symptoms don’t improve, go back to your regular diet and consult your doctor.
If your symptoms do improve, the next step is to reintroduce trigger foods one by one every three days to see which foods cause a reaction. If you don’t have symptoms for a day or so after a food is reintroduced then the food is likely to be safe to eat.
Finally, create a new, healthy diet plan for yourself that does not include your trigger food(s).
Safety First
Long-term elimination diets can lead to malnutrition; don’t follow one for longer than two or three weeks. And if you have a dangerous or life-threatening food allergy, do not try to reintroduce trigger foods.
Reader's Digest Association
Get More Natural Remedies Doctors Approve!
The book Doctors’ Favorite Natural Remedies offers effective ways to treat more than 85 health conditions and evaluates the most commonly used alternative therapies and supplements. Learn more and buy Doctors’ Favorite Natural Remedies here.
Popular Videos
ⓘ
Originally Published: June 22, 2016
Originally Published in Reader's Digest
Copyright © 2016 Trusted Media Brands, Inc.
Now Trending
Corn vs. Flour Tortilla: Which One Is Healthier?
Here’s What Neil Patrick Harris Ordered on His First Date with David Burtka
Eat This Fruit Every Day for a Longer Life, Says Science
About Us
Nutrition
Wellness
Our Brands
Reader’s Digest
Taste of Home
Family Handyman
Birds & Blooms
About The Healthy
Our Medical Review Board
Advertise with Us
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Your CA Privacy Rights
Do Not Sell My Personal Information – CA Residents
Accessibility Statement
About Ads
Cookie Settings
© 2022 Trusted Media Brands, Inc.
Sign Up For Our Newsletter
Enter email address
Sign Up
Search terms
We are no longer supporting IE (Internet Explorer) as we strive to provide site experiences for browsers that support new web standards and security practices.
Deletion of a common region on the long arm of chromosome 6 in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.
Menasce, Lia P
Orphanos, Vassilis
Santibanez-Koref, Mauro F
Department of Histopathology, Christie Hospital, Manchester, United Kingdom.
We have characterised a region of deletion on the long arm of chromosome 6 (6q) in six cases of acute lymphoblastic leukaemia, by fluorescence in situ hybridisation, using a series of YAC clones which map to 6q. Conventional cytogenetic analysis of four of these cases had been interpreted as showing terminal deletions of 6q. We demonstrated by FISH that in all cases the deletions were interstitial. D6S246 (6q16.3) was the only marker which was missing in all six cases, indicating a common region of deletion between the markers M6P1 at 6q14-15 and FYN at 6q21. Our results suggest the presence of a tumour suppressor gene within this interval.
Deletion of a common region on the long arm of chromosome 6 in acute lymphoblastic leukaemia. 1994, 10 (1):26-9 Genes Chromosomes Cancer
http://hdl.handle.net/10541/97360
10.1002/gcc.2870100105
7519870
Common region of deletion on the long arm of chromosome 6 in non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and acute lymphoblastic leukaemia.
Authors: Menasce LP, Orphanos V, Santibanez-Koref M, Boyle JM, Harrison CJ
Analysis of chromosome 6 deletions in lymphoid malignancies provides evidence for a region of minimal deletion within a 2-megabase segment of 6q21.
Authors: Sherratt T, Morelli C, Boyle JM, Harrison CJ
Deletion of 6q16-q21 in human lymphoid malignancies: a mapping and deletion analysis.
Authors: Jackson A, Carrara P, Duke V, Sinclair P, Papaioannou M, Harrison CJ, Foroni L
Issue date: 2000 Jun 1
Authors: Ohshima K, Haraokaa S, Ishihara S, Ohgami A, Yoshioka S, Suzumiya J, Kikuchi M
A 3-cM commonly deleted region in 6q21 in leukemias and lymphomas delineated by fluorescence in situ hybridization.
Authors: Zhang Y, Matthiesen P, Harder S, Siebert R, Castoldi G, Calasanz MJ, Wong KF, Rosenwald A, Ott G, Atkin NB, Schlegelberger B
African Americans have made significant contributions in various fields of science. Contributions in the field of chemistry include the development of synthetic drugs for the treatment of chronic ailments. In the field of physics, African Americans have helped to invent laser devices for the treatment of cancer patients. In the field of medicine, African Americans have developed treatments for various diseases including leprosy, cancer, and syphilis.
From inventors and surgeons to chemists and zoologists, African Americans have made invaluable contributions to science and humanity. Many of these individuals were able to have great success in the face of bigotry and racism. Some of these notable scientists include:
Major Accomplishments: Otis Boykin invented 28 electronic devices including the control unit for the heart pacemaker. He patented a wire precision resistor that was cost effective to manufacture and improved function in electronic devices such as transistor radios, missile systems, televisions, and IBM computers. Other inventions of Boykin include a burglar-proof cash register, an electrical resistance capacitor, and a chemical air filter.
Major Accomplishments: This Johns Hopkins' pediatric neurosurgeon and professor led a medical team that became the first to separate Siamese twins successfully. Dr. Ben Carson was also the first to perform an interuterine procedure for the treatment of a hydrocephalic twin. He also performed a hemispherectomy (removal of half of the brain) in an infant to stop severe epileptic seizures.
Major Accomplishments: This biochemist worked for NASA and discovered a method for detecting bacteria in water, food, and body fluids through studies of bioluminescence. Emmett Chappelle's studies in luminescence have also produced methods for using satellites for monitoring crops.
Major Accomplishments: Best known for his work with blood plasma, Charles Drew helped set up the American Red Cross blood bank. He also established the first blood bank in England and developed standards for collecting blood and processing blood plasma. Additionally, Dr. Drew developed the first mobile blood donation centers.
Major Accomplishments: His work in food sterilization and preservation improved processes in food packing and preparation. Dr. Lloyd Hall's sterilization techniques have been adapted for use in the sterilization of medical equipment, spices, and pharmaceuticals.
Major Accomplishments: This research chemist is known for developing synthetic steroids for use in the treatment of arthritis and other inflammatory diseases. Dr. Percy Julian also developed a process for creating a soy protein foam that was used to extinguish fires on aircraft carriers.
Major Accomplishments: This zoologist and behavioral scientist is known for his work with insects. Turner's studies with honey bees demonstrated that they can distinguish colors. Dr. Charles Henry Turner was also the first to demonstrate that insects can hear sounds.
Major Accomplishments: Dr. Daniel Williams founded the Provident Hospital in Chicago. In 1893, he performed the first successful open heart surgery. He is also the first African American surgeon to perform surgery on the pericardium of the heart to repair a wound.
Health and safety booklet pdf : Download : Top downloads for Windows software
01-Nov-2017 21:23 digitex123
The health and safety toolbox How to control risks at work - HSE Good health and safety is the responsibility of everyone in your organisation. It replaces HSE's most popular guidance book Essentials of health and safety at work and. The health and safety toolbox How to control risks at work. Page 7 of 103. How to use this book. This book is easy to use and will help you comply with the law and prevent. HSE Books 2014 gov.uk/pubns/indg163
Occupational health and safety handbook - Workforce XS This manual was updated in 2017 and new amendments to the Ontario construction regulations (213/91) have been addressed. Ensure employees are provided with a working environment that is safe and without risk to health;. Implement and maintain safe systems of work;. Consult with all employees on OHS matters;. Take reasonable steps to ensure risk are controlled at the client's workplace;. Monitor and review the effectiveness of measures to.
Group Health, Safety, Environment and Security Handbook - Subsea 7 Many of chapters below are also available to download in French. We believe that all our people are entitled to the same level of protection regardless of where in the world they work. To ensure a consistent approach to safeguarding Health, Safety, Environment and Security we have developed a global HSE Management System supported by our HSE processes, procedures, instructions.
OSHA Field Safety and Health Manual However the information has not been updated for 2017. OSHA Field. Safety and Health. Manual. * OSHA ARCHIVE DOCUMENT *. NOTICE This is an OSHA ARCHIVE Document and may no longer represent OSHA policy. * OSHA ARCHIVE DOCUMENT *. This document is presented here as historical content, for research and review purposes only.
HEALTH & SAFETY ORIENTATION GUIDE for. - WorkSafeNB It's an example of the resources and information your organisation can access by becoming a member of the British Safety Council. Health and safety orientation is a vital component of any company's health and safety management system. It is the. Employees become aware of the health and safety hazards on the job, controls for these hazards and. service or apprenticeship, written or oral, expressed or implied, whether by way of manual labour or.
Occupational health and safety policy and procedures manual Order a hard-copy version of the manual (M029) or click on the links below to download individual chapters. Health & Safety Manual. Page 2 of 20. Forward. Your Company Name is committed to the Health and Safety of all our employees. The purpose of the Health and Safety policies and procedures is to guide and direct all employees to work safely and prevent injury, to themselves and others. All employees are encouraged to.
Health and Safety Awareness Teacher Manual - OSHA To help you communicate this message the booklet is an introduction to key themes your employees should be aware of. This material was produced under grant number SH-22300-11 from the Occupational Safety and Health. Administration. The initial themes seemed like a logical approach to introduce health and safety awareness to the participants.
Staff Health and Safety Handbook - University of Sussex The following are Health & Safety Precautions manuals for Nintendo's home and portable systems. Health &. Internal Number 7116. Safety Office External Number 01273 877116. Switchboard Internal Number 01. External Number 01273 606755. Please take a few minutes to read this booklet and to familiarise yourself with the.
Climbing A Mountain Clip Art - Journal of Applied Psychology, 88 (4), – - Prasad, P. (). Factors influencing employee centric performance in industries: A lesson in human resource management. International Journal of Scientific and Research Publications, 4 (3), 1–6. Ranta, M. (). Apr 09, · Burnout and job outcomes. Numerous reasons indicate the importance of burnout research. Such findings contribute to understanding the health and performance consequences of stress at work (Shirom, ).Burnout is treated as a consequence deriving from stressful work conditions (e.g. excessive work demands), and is a syndrome consisting of feelings of emotional exhaustion, . stress is a better predictor of burnout and general health than job satisfaction, which is better predicted by work stress. The ﬁndings of this study could inform potential solutions to reduce the impact of personal and work stress on burnout, job satisfaction and general health. marketing communications strategy presentation format
low capital formation ppt presentation - Job stress has been recognized as a significant occupational hazard that can impair physical health, psychological well-being, and work performance (see Kahn & Byosiere, ; Sauter & Murphy, ).The worker's internal experience of strain is assumed to play a mediating role between the impact of external job demands (stressors) and work-related outcomes (such as absenteeism or illness). Aug 07, · (). Optimism, Stress, Life Satisfaction, and Job Burnout in Restaurant Managers. The Journal of Psychology: Vol. , No. 6, pp. Burnout refers specifically to phenomena in the occupational context and should not be applied to describe experiences in other areas of life.” Exclusion to this diagnosis include adjustment disorder, disorders specifically associated with stress such as PTSD, fear-related disorders and mood disorders (anxiety and depression). abaqus reinforced concrete thesis proposal
how to write economic report - Jun 03, · Burnout is a syndrome defined as a “prolonged response to chronic interpersonal stressors on the job” characterized by exhaustion, cynicism and detachment, and lack of accomplishment from work. The stress, social support, and burnout of critical care nurses: the results of research. Cronin-Stubbs D, Rooks CA. Cronin-Stubbs D, et al. Heart Lung. Jan;14(1) Background: Nursing is a notoriously high-stress occupation - emotionally taxing and physically draining, with a high incidence of burnout. In addition to the damaging effects of stress on nurses' health and well being, stress is also a major contributor to attrition and widespread shortages in the nursing profession. Write My Term Paper And Essay | Buy
16500 words 67 pages 16750 words 68 pages 17000 words - A meta-analytic examination of the correlates of the three dimensions of job burnout. Journal of Applied Psychology, 81, Maslach, C. (). Job burnout: New directions in research and intervention. Current Directions in Psychological Science, 12, Maslach, C., & Leiter, M. P. (). Stress and burnout: The critical research. After all, Behavior Analyst was recently rated as one of the top 10 jobs for do-gooders, with most individuals reporting their job as being highly meaningful. Yet, clinical behavior analysts may well be positioned for high levels of stress on the job. This point was recently highlighted when my colleague, Jane, quit her job at her ABA company. Occupational burnout Occupational burnout is thought to result from long-term, unresolvable job stress. In , Herbert Freudenberger became the first researcher to publish in a psychology-related journal a paper that used the term burnout. The paper was based. How to play Playerunknowns Battlegrounds for Android on
hamilton ohio lodd radio traffic report - Aim - the purpose of this study is to examine the role of employee rewards, recognition, and job-related stress towards employee performance considering the mediating role of perceived organizational support in the call-centers located in Lahore, Pakistan. Design - The data has been gathered through the survey method of the questionnaire. Feb 13, · Background Burnout occurs when professionals use ineffective coping strategies to try to protect themselves from work-related stress. The dimensions of ‘overload’, ‘lack of development’ and ‘neglect’, belonging to the ‘frenetic’, ‘under-challenged’ and ‘worn-out’ subtypes, respectively, comprise a brief typological definition of burnout. The aim of the present study was. burnout is a process that begins with excessive and prolonged levels of job stress. The stress produces strain in the worker (feelings of tension, irritability and fatigue). The process is completed when the worker defensively copes with the job and becomes apathetic, cynical or rigid. 2. training attendance report boy scouts of america
Facing your fears essay - Valley - Maslach, C., & Leiter, M. P. (). Early Predictors of Job Burnout and Engagement. Journal of Applied Psychology, 93, The British Journal of Social Work, Volume 45, Issue 7, October , (the outcomes of) high job stress and/or burnout among human-service organisation employees reveals that negative attitudes towards clients are included in several of them. Journal of Applied Sciences, 23 (2), pp. Sep 18, · Work & Stress publishes research on occupational health psychology, social relations at work, motivation and burnout, and work-life balance. Search in: This Journal . case study innovation management techniques
MLA Style Requirements - YouTube - The Impact of Job Stress on Employee Job Satisfaction A Study on Telecommunication Sector of Pakistan, Journal of Business Studies Quarterly, Vol. 2, No. . Aug 25, · Introduction. Job burnout and secondary traumatic stress (STS) have been recognized as the crucial consequences of extreme job demands in human services professionals [1,2].Such demands may include frequent and intense contact with traumatized clients and chronic exposure to traumatic content at work [1,2].Job burnout generally refers to a response to a broad range of occupational stressors. Nov 05, · The sources and outcomes of job stress and burnout are well documented in the literature. Advisors can take the disconnect we feel when stress is introduced and look at it not as an ailment to correct, but as an opportunity to create new meaning and engagement. Early predictors of job burnout and engagement. Journal of Applied Psychology, 3. windows vista change drive letter assignment
Latest Clinton Foundation Scandal News - discusses the yr history of the journal. a reading of 10 complete volumes on a 5-yr cycle starting in suggests that the classic problems of applied psychology were approximately disclosed. Jul 09, · Similarly, one study (paywall) of 76 clerical employees in Israel, published in the Journal of Applied Psychology, found that the workers’ self-reported feelings of burnout . The levels of anxiety, depression, psychological stress, and professional quality of life (compassion satisfaction, burnout, and compassion fatigue) and attitudes toward psychological support were measured among Italian healthcare workers (mean age = years; SD = ; range: 27–72). An Introduction to the Importance of Premarital Sex
write a report about any well-known eventfully yours - Dec 16, · Fernando Doménech Betoret, Self‐efficacy, school resources, job stressors and burnout among Spanish primary and secondary school teachers: a structural equation approach, Educational Psychology, /, 29, 1, (), (). Using structural equation modeling, this paper compares a more traditional, unmediated model of work‐based role stress and its consequences on job satisfaction and burnout to two models in which the role stress‐affective work outcome relationship is mediated (partially and completely) by work‐home conflict across two samples of public sector professionals: engineers and nurses. Job burnout occurs frequently among those in human service jobs (e.g., social workers, teachers, therapists, and police officers). Job burnout consists of three dimensions. The first dimension is exhaustion—a sense that one’s emotional resources are drained or that one is at the end of her rope and has nothing more to give at a. Understanding September 11 | Scholastic
black arts movement essay writer - ANDERSON, J. G. Stress and burnout among nurses: A social network approach. Journal of Social Behavior and Personality, , 6, – Google Scholar. Mar 15, · Introduction. Hospital health professionals (HPs) face a wide range of hazards on the job, including workplace stress [].Burnout syndrome, a particular type of prolonged occupational stress, develops in HPs as a result of exposure to chronic emotional and interpersonal workplace stressors [].It involves overwhelming exhaustion; feelings of frustration, anger, and cynicism; and a sense of. Journal of Mental Health, Vol. 25, Issue. 4, p. CrossRef; Early predictors of job burnout and engagement. Journal of Applied Psychology 98, Occupational stress and job burnout in mental health: Stress lavorativo e burnout in salute mentale. A. Lasalvia and M. Tansella. Report on hurricane Katrina
Dial Psychiatry - Psychiatry Services, Mental Health Services
Dr. Dial's practice offers patients and families a calm, comfortable, and confidential environment to explore options for the evaluation and management of emotional and behavioral concerns. Our services include a thorough evaluation, medication management, patient education and may serve as a complement to a patient's current treatment team. Whether it is a new problem or a longer term pattern of behavior which is adversely affecting family relationships, educational success or the development of appropriate social skills, it is always helpful to seek a professional opinion.
Dr. Dial's practice also offers patients the ability to connect with providers from the comfort of their own home or office. By leveraging a secure HIPPA compliant video conference connection, sessions can be conducted via a computer that is equipped with a webcam and microphone. To learn more, view our Telepsychiatry page.
Dial Psychiatry services in Flower Mound provides a wide range of Psychiatry services in Texas to include behavioral and emotional disorders and also provide medication prescription and management. We believe that psychiatric evaluation, in addition to complementary therapeutic approaches (medication, counseling/psychotherapy) provide the best outcome for the patient. View our mental health services here.
Dr. Dial develops specialized treatment plans that are evidenced based. Dr. Dial believes in a multi-modal treatment approach and makes referrals, when necessary, to well-established and reputable community therapists to fit the individual needs of you, your child or family.
Features to Seek Out in a Note-Taking Application - Managed IT Force Blog | Cranberry Township, PA | Managed IT Force
If you are ready to change the way you take notes for the better, Managed IT Force can help. To learn more, reach out to us at 724-473-3950.
Windows 10 Backup Cloud Business Data Backup Malware Information Computer Hardware Productivity Security Hackers Cybersecurity Network Security Disaster Recovery Business Management Data IT Services Users Best Practices Innovation IT Support User Tips Business Computing Email Smartphones Privacy Hosted Solutions Ransomware Communication Software Workplace Tips Microsoft Google Internet Collaboration Tip of the Week Efficiency Small Business Technology
A question that I am often asked by family members, friends, and even by other physicians and nurses that I work with, is “Should I get my memory evaluated?” Partly, the question is asked because they have noticed memory problems, and are struggling to sort out whether theses lapses are an inevitable part of normal aging versus the start of something more ominous, such as Alzheimer’s disease. But another part of the question—particularly when asked by healthcare professionals—goes unspoken: “We can’t really do anything about memory problems, anyways, right? So why should we bother getting our memory evaluated?”
This latter sentiment was most recently voiced by a physician who criticized me for diagnosing and treating her patient. “Wouldn’t it be better to not tell him?” she said. “Wouldn’t it be better not to make him worried and depressed about having Alzheimer’s disease?”
One in ten people (5.5 million) over the age of 65 have Alzheimer’s dementia and about 200,000 people younger than 65 have early onset Alzheimer’s. I’ve been thinking about this statistic and the conversation with my colleague for the last month, and here is my answer. Or, to be more precise, here are seven reasons as to why anyone should bother with a memory evaluation.
Jeffrey Burns, M.D., director of the University of Kansas Heartland Institute for Clinical and Translational Research’s Participant and Clinical Interactions Resources Program, and its Clinical and Translational Science Unit, and director of the Alzheimer’s and Memory Program, monitors Howard Kemper, a participant in the Brain Aging Project. Image by Donna Peck for the National Center for Advancing Translational Science. CC BY 2.0 via Flickr.
Knowledge is power. It is a fact of life that changes to memory will occur with age. Those that occur with healthy aging are different from those due to Alzheimer’s and other dementias. Rather than worrying about memory loss, it is much better to sort out what is the cause of your memory problems. I can honestly say that almost every patient I see comes away content to know where their memory problems are coming from—even if Alzheimer’s disease is the answer.
Current treatments for memory loss do actually work. The current treatments for Alzheimer’s disease have been shown to turn the clock back on the memory loss by about six to twelve months. This means that you generally see an improvement in your thinking and memory. And they don’t stop working—even as the Alzheimer’s disease progress and thinking and memory deteriorate over time, your memory is almost always better using currently available medications than it would be without them.
Future treatments may significantly slow down Alzheimer’s disease. Over the past ten years, our improved understanding of Alzheimer’s disease has generated new potential treatments that may further improve memory, stop the formation of the amyloid plaques that damage brain cells, or even remove those plaques altogether. These new medications are available now in clinical trials.
Treatments work best when started early. Many studies have shown that the magnitude of improvement is larger when the medications are started early, in the mild stage of disease, rather than waiting until the moderate or severe stages. Additionally, most clinical trials of new medications are only open to those with mild disease.
Physical exercise and proper diet can help. Everyone knows that exercise is good for you, but few people realize how important it is for their memory and brain health. In addition to reducing the risk of strokes, aerobic exercise improves sleep, mood, and memory—it can even promote the growth of new cells in the hippocampus, the part of the brain that forms new memories. In addition, many studies have found that the Mediterranean diet can reduce memory loss.
Strategies and memory aids can help everyone. Whether memory loss is due to normal aging or the start of a brain disease such as Alzheimer’s, everyone can improve their memory using strategies and external memory aids, such as mnemonics, notebooks, calendars, pillboxes, and smartphones.
Participating in memory research or advocacy work can help future generations. Be proactive. Confront your memory problems and find out what is causing them.
Empowered with this knowledge, you will be ready to participate in research, advocacy work, or another endeavor that can help those around you and the next generation.
Featured Image Credit: Walk to End Alzheimer’s in Bourbonnais Saturday, September 29, 2012 by Alzheimer’s Association Illinois Chapter. CC BY 2.0 via Flickr.
Andrew E. Budson, MD, majored in chemistry and philosophy at Haverford College before receiving his medical degree from Harvard Medical School. Dr. Budson is Professor of Neurology at Boston University, Lecturer in Neurology at Harvard Medical School, and Chief of Cognitive & Behavioral Neurology at the Veterans Affairs Boston Healthcare System. His career combines education, research, and clinical care to help those with memory disorders. He is the author of Seven Steps to Managing Your Memory.
Posted In:
Books
Health & Medicine
Psychology & Neuroscience
Science & Medicine
Subscribe to the OUPblog via email:
Our Privacy Policy sets out how Oxford University Press handles your personal information, and your rights to object to your personal information being used for marketing to you or being processed as part of our business activities.
We will only use your personal information to register you for OUPblog articles.
Or subscribe to articles in the subject area by email or RSS
Related posts:
Triggered ideas: finding inspiration
Recent Comments
There are currently no comments.
About Us
Follow Us
Contact Us
Terms and Conditions of Use
Reuse of Blog Content
Cookie Policy
Privacy Policy
Categories
Arts & Humanities
History
Language
Law
Science & Medicine
Social Sciences
Multimedia
Series & Columns
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Tumblr
Pinterest
YouTube
Vimeo
Soundcloud
Sina Weibo
Gateways
Oxford Academic
Oxford Journals
Oxford Online
Higher Education
Oxford Index
Oxford Languages
OUP Worldwide
University of Oxford
Oxford University Press is a department of the University of Oxford. It furthers the University's objective of excellence in research, scholarship, and education by publishing worldwide.
L Chow, Y Hui, D Au. A Rare Cause of Sudden Hearing Loss in Chinese: Cochlear Involvement of Sarcoidosis. The Internet Journal of Otorhinolaryngology. 2003 Volume 3 Number 1.
Abstract
Sudden sensorineural hearing loss is a common problem presented to otorhinolaryngologists. Sarcoidosis is a rare condition among the Chinese population. Sudden sensorineural hearing loss as a manifestation of sarcoidosis in Chinese patients has not been reported in the literature. This is the first reported case of sarcoidosis with cochlear involvement on a 42-year-old Hong Kong Chinese man who presented with sudden unilateral sensorineural hearing loss. The diagnosis was made after he presented with hearing loss.
All the work of this article should be attributed to the Division of Otorhinolaryngology, Department of Surgery, Queen Mary Hospital, University of Hong Kong Medical Center
Introduction
Sudden sensorineural hearing loss is a common otologic problem. It is defined as sensorineural hearing loss of 30 dB or more in three contiguous pure tone frequencies within 72 hours. The reported incidences are 5-20 per 100,000 population per year.1 Persons of all ages may be affected, and there is no sex predilection.2 Partial or complete spontaneous recovery occurs in 30% to 65% of cases.3 Extended evaluation may reveal occult underlying diseases (e.g. acoustic neuromas, and infectious diseases) in 10% of cases.2
Sarcoidosis is a disease of worldwide distribution but is rare among Chinese. In the Hong Kong Chinese population, only 12 confirmed cases of sarcoidosis have been reported.4,5,6 None of the cases reported in Hong Kong was characterized by central nervous system involvement, which affects approximately 5% of all cases. In fact, only one report exists that describes sarcoid-related cranial neuropathies in a Chinese patient.7
As Hong Kong physicians rarely encounter patients with sarcoid-induced cranial neuropathies, the diagnosis may be missed or delayed in the Hong Kong community. In this report, we describe the clinical features of the first reported case of sarcoid-induced sensorineural hearing loss in a Hong Kong Chinese patient and discuss salient features of its presentation, diagnosis, and treatment.
Case Report
A 42-year-old Hong Kong Chinese man was referred for otolaryngological consultation for cervical lymphadenopathy and sudden sensorineural hearing loss of the left ear discovered incidentally on admission to our hospital. The patient presented to the physician with complaints of palpitations but was soon discharged, as thorough work up for cardiovascular pathology did not reveal any abnormality. The patient reported no recent illness, fever, night sweats, and malaise. In addition, he reported no tinnitus, vertigo, or head trauma. His past health was remarkable for remote history of rheumatic fever, an episode of facial palsy of the right-side one month prior to admission that improved with oral steroids (treated by an outside physician), and bilateral uveitis. Current medications included prednisolone and timolol eye drops. The patient is a non-smoker and non-drinker.
Physical examination was notable for one palpable, non-tender, firm, and mobile enlarged lymph node measuring approximately 2 cm x 2 cm in the right supraclavicular region. An audiogram revealed moderate to severe sensorineural hearing loss in the left ear and normal to mild hearing loss in the right ear (Figure 1). The remainder of the otolaryngologic and neurologic examination was normal.
Figure 1
Figure 1: Audiogram at presentation showing left sensorineural hearing loss. X & 0 symbols represent left & right air conduction thresholds respectively; ] & [ symbols represent left & right bone conduction thresholds respectively.
Laboratory investigations showed normal leukocyte count, slight anaemia with hemoglobin at 12.8 g/dL (normal range, 13.0-18.0 g/dL), and lymphocytopenia at 0.50 x 109/L (normal range, 1.50-4.00 x 109/L). His serum chemistry was unremarkable. The erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) was elevated at 50 mm/hr (normal range, <10mm/hr). Both the albumin adjusted serum calcium level and the urinary calcium excretion were normal. The liver enzyme panel was within normal range as were the serum globulin level and serum immunoglobulin patterns. Tests for autoimmune antibodies, including antibodies to neutrophilic cytoplasmic antigens (ANCA), were all negative. Spirometry recorded a reduced 1-second forced expiratory volume of 1.84 L (69% predicted volume) but the forced vital and diffusing capacities were within normal. Mantoux test performed during the hospital admission was negative. Kveim test was not available. Angiotensin converting enzyme level was 63 units (normal range, 14-70).
Bilateral hilar and paratracheal masses were seen on chest X-ray. Computerized tomography of the chest showed extensive mediastinal and hilar lymphadenopathy. X-ray films of the hands and feet did not reveal the presence of lytic lesions. Panendoscopy showed no significant findings, and nasopharyngeal biopsies were negative for malignancy. Ultrasound scan of the neck located two enlarged lymph nodes: one each in the right and left supraclavicular regions. Excision biopsy of the right supraclavicular lymph node and endobronchial biopsy of the left upper lobe revealed florid epitheloid granulomatous inflammation with small areas of central necrosis and giant cell formation, suggestive of sarcoidosis (Figure 2). No acid-fast bacilli or fungi were noted on either biopsy. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) with gadolinium enhancement of the brain was normal.
Figure 2
Figure 2: Biopsy of the enlarged right supraclavicular lymph node showing coalescing non-caseating granulomas comp osed of large epithelioid histiocytes with rare multinucleated giant cells.
In audiologic investigations, both transient evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAEs) and distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) were absent in the affected ear. This represented an impairment of normal outer hair cells function in the affected cochlea. Auditory brainstem response (ABR) tests showed a consistent waveform and the interwave latency measurements were within normal range. The results indicated normal functioning auditory nerves.
Based on the serologic, radiographic, and histopathologic findings consistent with sarcoidosis, the patient was diagnosed with sarcoid-induced hearing loss. Steroid therapy was initiated at two weeks after the onset of hearing loss until the diagnosis of sarcoidosis was substantiated by chemical and histological investigations. Oral prednisolone of 1mg/kg was given for 4 weeks period and then tailed off in one-week time. The patient responded by showing a reduction of ESR to 10mm/hr, and significant reduction in size of hilar lymphadenopathy in chest XR with improvement of lung function parameters. However, pure tone threshold of the affected ear did not show any improvement.
Discussion
Sarcoidosis is rare, and central nervous system involvement has been virtually unheard of among the Chinese population. Here we report the first case of sarcoid-induced sensorineural hearing loss in a Hong Kong Chinese man. The 12 previously reported cases of sarcoidosis among the Hong Kong Chinese population were almost asymptomatic at presentation while others presented with uveitis, respiratory symptoms, malaise, or diabetes insipidus. In general, pulmonary (88%), lymphatic (25-50%), ocular (15-25%), dermatologic (20%), hepatic and splenic manifestations are common.8 Otolaryngologic signs of sarcoidosis are seen in 10% to 15% of patients, most commonly in the form of neck mass, parotid swelling, and facial paralysis.9 Facial palsy is the most common neurological disorder afflicting nearly half of patients with neurological involvement. 10, 11 The optic nerve is the second cranial nerve most affected while cranial nerves IX and X combined are the third most commonly affected.11 Sarcoid-induced hearing loss affects less than 1% of patients and is often sudden, asymmetrical, and fluctuating.9, 12 Involvement of cranial nerve VIII is usually associated with other cranial neuropathies. However, a few cases of patients whose sole initial manifestation of sarcoidosis was sudden hearing loss have been reported.13
Most studies report a strong association between VIIIth cranial neuropathy and uveitis and/or facial paralysis. 10, 13, 14 Hybels and Rice11 found that of 12 patients with sensorineural hearing loss due to sarcoidosis, 11 patients had uveitis and 8 had facial palsy. Consistent with those reports, our patient was being treated for uveitis at the time of presentation and reported a recent history of facial palsy.
The diagnosis of sarcoidosis is made based on compatible clinical, serologic, and radiological findings, histological evidence of noncaseating granulomas, and exclusion of other diseases capable of producing a similar clinical or histological picture. Common laboratory abnormalities seen in sarcoidosis include anaemia, lymphocytopenia, elevated alkaline phosphatase, hypercalcemia, hypercalciuria, hypergammaglobulinemia, and an elevated ESR. The case presented here demonstrated the presence of many of these abnormalities. Because the cells that make up granulomas secrete large amounts of angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE), high ACE enzyme levels are observed in up to 80% - 90% of patients with sarcoidosis. Although not pathognomonic, elevated ACE levels are suggestive of sarcoidosis. Both ESR and ACE levels can used to monitor the progress of the disease. The Kveim test, which involves intradermal injection of heat-treated sarcoid tissue to test for host granulomatous reaction, is fairly sensitive (approximately 80%) and highly specific (>95%), but the antigen is not available in Hong Kong due to the risk of disease transmission.
Radiographic findings such as bilateral hilar and mediastinal lymphadenopathy, pulmonary parenchymal infiltrates, or lytic lesions of the metacarpals and phalanges can support the diagnosis of sarcoidosis. Although gadolinium-enhanced MRI findings did not identify any lesions in the VIIIth cranial nerve in our patient, MRI findings of nerve lesions in patients with sarcoid-induced hearing loss and facial palsy have been reported. 12, 15
Although not pathognomonic, sarcoidosis is most strongly supported by histopathologic findings of noncaseating granulomas in involved tissues. If available and accessible, involved lymph nodes may be the simplest to biopsy. If lymph nodes are unavailable, mediastinoscopic or bronchoscopic biopsies offer the highest rates of specificity at 60% - 80% and 98% - 100%, respectively.9 Nonetheless, tuberculosis, lymphoma, fungal infections, vasculitides, rheumatic fever, and berylliosis can give a similar histopathologic picture and must be excluded before the diagnosis of sarcoidosis can be confirmed. Moreover, even in a patient with known sarcoidosis, it is important to rule out other possible causes of sensorineural hearing loss, such as infection, neoplasm, ototoxicity, and trauma, before a diagnosis of sarcoid-induced hearing loss is made.
Multiple theories have been proposed to explain the mechanism of hearing loss in sarcoidosis. These theories have included toxaemia of the Organ of Corti, mechanical compression and/or direct infiltration of sarcoid deposits in the VIIIth cranial nerve and/or the brainstem, and inflammatory vasospasm or vasculitis of vessels serving the brainstem or cranial nerves. 11, 12, 14 However, the exact pathophysiology of sarcoid-induced hearing loss remains unknown. In our patient, normal ABR and MRI findings supported an intact auditory nerve. TEOAEs and DPOAEs reflect the normal function of outer hair cells in a healthy cochlea, absence of which in our patient indicated cochlear impairment. As the onset of the hearing loss was abrupt and direct infiltration of sarcoid deposit to the cochlea was excluded in the MRI study, we postulated that the mechanism of sensorineural hearing loss in our patient was ischaemia of the cochlear organ secondary to inflammation of the supplying vessels. Whereas pulmonary manifestations of sarcoidosis are often asymptomatic and may not require treatment, administration of steroids is the mainstay of treatment for those with central nervous system involvement and has been shown to improve central nervous system function.13 However, the steroid therapy was not started until the diagnosis of sarcoidosis was substantiated by chemical and histological investigations. There was a two-week delay of steroid treatment after the onset of hearing loss. As the ischaemia of the cochlear organ secondary to inflammation of the supplying vessels was suggested, there may be irreversible ischaemic damage to the inner ear if the treatment was delayed. This can help to explain the poor response to treatment in pure tone threshold of the affected ear despite of the favorable responses in ESR and lung function parameters. We propose that earlier administration of steroid therapy, hopefully before the irreversible ischaemic damage to the inner ear, is necessary for a better outcome.
Conclusion
Although sarcoidosis is rare among the Chinese, it must be considered in the differential diagnosis of cranial neuropathies. Sudden sensorineural hearing loss is a well-recognized manifestation of sarcoidosis, and when sudden asymmetric sensorineural hearing loss presents in association with uveitis, facial paralysis, and neck mass, sarcoidosis should be strongly considered. The diagnosis of sarcoidosis and sarcoid-induced hearing loss is most strongly supported by characteristic histopathologic findings of noncaseating granulomas in biopsy specimens, but diseases with similar presentations must be excluded. Treatment involves administration of systemic steroids. ESR, ACE levels, and follow-up audiograms are useful in the monitoring of disease progression.
Acknowledgements
The authors acknowledge Dr F. Loong of Department of Pathology, Queen Mary Hospital for providing the pathology micrography.
Correspondence to
Dr. Dennis KK Au AuD Division of Otorhinolaryngology Department of Surgery Queen Mary Hospital University of Hong Kong Medical Center 102 Pokfulam Road Hong Kong, China Tel.: (852)2855-4824 Fax: (852)2855-3464 E-mail: kinkwau@hkucc.hku.hk
References
1.	Byl FM Jr. Sudden hearing loss: eight years' experience and suggested prognostic table. Laryngoscope 1984;94(5 Pt 1):647-61.
2.	Mattox DE, Lyles CA. Idiopathic sudden sensorineural hearing loss. Am J Otol 1989;10(3):242-7.
3.	Mattox DE, Simmons FB. Natural history of sudden sensorineural hearing loss. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol 1977;86(4 Pt 1):436-80.
4.	Nandi PL, Au MC, Ong GB. Sarcoidosis among Chinese. Chest 1981;80(1):74-9.
5.	Lam WK, Nandi PL, Kung TM, So SY. Sarcoidosis in Hong Kong Chinese-a review of nine cases. Asian Med J 1983;26:712-5.
6.	Leung WK, Lei KI, Yim A, Sit YK, Lai CK, Leung R. Sarcoidosis in a Hong Kong Chinese Woman. Hong Kong Med J 1998;4(3):333-6.
7.	Lim SH, Puvan K, Cheah ES. A case of sarcoidosis presenting as cranial polyneuritis. Singapore Med J 1989;30(4):400-3.
8.	Lazarus AA. Sarcoidosis. Otolaryngol Clin North Am 1982;15(3):621-31.
9.	Shah UK, White JA, Gooey JE, Hybels RL. Otolaryngologic manifestations of sarcoidosis: presentation and diagnosis. Laryngoscope 1997;107(1):67-75.
10.	Hybels RL, Rice DH. Neuro-otologic manifestations of sarcoidosis. Laryngoscope 1976;86(12):1873-8.
11.	Colover J. Sarcoidosis with involvement of the central nervous system. Brain 1948;71:451-75.
12.	O'Reilly BJ, Burrows EH. VIIIth cranial nerve involvement in sarcoidosis. J Laryngol Otol. 1995;109(11):1089-93.
13.	Souliere CR Jr, Kava CR, Barrs, DM, Bell, AF. Sudden hearing loss as the sole manifestation of neurosarcoidosis. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 1991;105(3):376-81.
14.	Jahrsdoerfer RA, Thompson EG, Johns M, Cantrell RW. Sarcoidosis and fluctuating hearing loss. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol 1981;90(2 Pt 1):161-3.
15.	Oki M, Takizawa S, Ohnuki Y, Shinohara Y. MRI findings of VIIth cranial nerve involvement in sarcoidosis. Br J Radiol 1997;70(836):859-61.
Author Information
Lawrence C.K. Chow, FRCS, FHKAM(ORL)
Division of Otorhinolaryngology, Department of Surgery, University of Hong Kong Medical Center, Queen Mary Hospital
Y. Hui, FRCS, FHKAM(ORL)
Division of Otorhinolaryngology, Department of Surgery, University of Hong Kong Medical Center, Queen Mary Hospital
Dennis K.K. Au, MAppSc, AuD
Division of Otorhinolaryngology, Department of Surgery, University of Hong Kong Medical Center, Queen Mary Hospital
