Texas Children's Hospital 2017 Annual Report | News | The Woodlands
Texas Children's Hospital The Woodlands opens its doors
Texas Children's Hospital The Woodlands opened its doors to the public on April 11, 2017, marking another milestone in Texas Children's history.
The 350,000-square-foot inpatient facility is the second community hospital in the Texas Children's system and serves patients and families in The Woodlands, Kingwood, Conroe, Spring, Magnolia, Humble, Huntsville and beyond. The hospital is the product of many long hours of dedicated planning and preparation, and was built on a decade's worth of relationships Texas Children's formed in the community through our primary and subspecialty care at Texas Children's Pediatrics locations and Texas Children's Health Center The Woodlands.
"At Texas Children's, we are committed to meeting the needs the patients and families we serve and doing so in a way that works for them," said Michelle Riley-Brown, president of Texas Children's Hospital The Woodlands. "For many, this means providing care closer to home. That's exactly why we built Texas Children's Hospital The Woodlands. The hospital allows us to provide even greater access to high-quality pediatric care in the community."
Designed with a "spirit of the woods" theme to incorporate the lush, woodsy landscape that surrounds it, Texas Children's Hospital The Woodlands is an open and inviting setting for patients, families and staff alike.
Just inside the main entrance is a grand staircase that simulates a tree house — a fun, central location for children and families visiting Texas Children's Hospital The Woodlands to gather. The campus features unique design elements, such as leaves on the ceiling, rivers on the floor and 1,700 pieces of art created by children in The Woodlands.
"A lot of planning and thought went into the design of this facility," said Trent Johnson, assistant vice president of The Woodlands. "It's focused completely on our patients."
Some features of the new facility include:
Connected to outpatient care
Located off of I-45 in The Woodlands, the inpatient hospital is connected to a six-floor, 210,000-square-foot Outpatient Building, which opened in October 2016 and houses more than 20 areas of specialized care including Cardiology, Sports Medicine, Neurology and Hematology/Oncology.
In its first year, Texas Children's Hospital The Woodlands saw more than 60,000 patients in the Outpatient Building.
The inpatient side has been busy as well since it opened, exceeding or meeting patient visit expectations in surgery, the Emergency Center and acute care.
"We started out strong and have continued to see rapid growth, which is a testament to the care we provide and our plan to build a community hospital in The Woodlands," Johnson said. "We look forward to caring for patients and families in this area for years and years to come."
We will take time to understand your values and personal vision of wellness. On average, a traditional primary care doctor will see between 3-4 patients an hour; at Wise Patient we schedule 2 patients an hour. Discussing options with patients is a responsibility we take seriously, and consider your healthcare a partnership. We will take excellent care of you and provide you with information to help you take care of yourself.
We believe information is a critical tool for better health, so we invest in your health education. We want to be confident that you and the Wise Patient Team are on the same page. When we share statistics about disease risk to you, we will personalize them to your unique situation.
We want it to be rare that you wait. To that end, we will ask you to provide us with a practical amount of pre-visit information and to show up on time. Our system of work flow emphasizes preparation and time awareness. We pledge to continually improve our scheduling methods to maintain your access to the clinic, including for same-day and short-notice appointments.
Wise Patient is not influenced by the financial motivations of a large institution. If we refer you for outside testing or to an outside specialist, you can be confident that we believe it is in your best interest. Without external pressure to refer you to one particular hospital’s group, Dr. Warren and Dr. Beda have the opportunity to refer you to the most qualified specialist for your unique situation.
Our use of electronic health records (EHR) will make your medical care safer, more successful, and more efficient. All medical tasks such as lab and imaging tests are tracked until results are available, and overdue results are flagged for follow-up. We can use our EHR to generate lists of our patients who have concerning test values or are behind in screening measures. That is powerful.
The Patient Portal is an easy way to see and schedule upcoming appointments, exchange messages with the Wise Patient Team, review your medications and test results, and access Dr. Warren’s and Dr. Beda’s full assessment and plan after each visit – all information exchanged through the Patient Portal is encrypted and HIPPA compliant.
Allergy. 2020 Feb;75(2):346-356. doi: 10.1111/all.14008. Epub 2019 Oct 2.
Sabine Bartel 1 2 , Stefania La Grutta 3 , Giovanna Cilluffo 3 , Giovanni Perconti 3 , Antonella Bongiovanni 3 , Agata Giallongo 3 , Jochen Behrends 4 , Jochen Kruppa 5 6 , Stefanie Hermann 7 , Dapi Chiang 7 , Michael W Pfaffl 7 , Susanne Krauss-Etschmann 1 8
1 Early Life Origins of Chronic Lung Disease, Research Center Borstel, Leibniz Lung Center, Member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL) and the Airway Research Center North (ARCN), Borstel, Germany.
2 Department of Pathology and Medical Biology, GRIAC Research Institute, University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
3 Institute for Research and Biomedical Innovation (IRIB), National Research Council, Palermo, Italy.
4 Core Facility Fluorescence Cytometry, Research Center Borstel, Leibniz Lung Center, Borstel, Germany.
5 Institute of Biometry and Clinical Epidemiology, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Berlin Institute of Health, Berlin, Germany.
7 Division of Animal Physiology and Immunology, School of Life Sciences Weihenstephan, Technical University of Munich, Munich, Germany.
8 Institute for Experimental Medicine, Christian-Albrechts-Universität zu Kiel, Kiel, Germany.
PMID: 31386204
DOI: 10.1111/all.14008
Background: miRNAs are master regulators of signaling pathways critically involved in asthma and are transferred between cells in extracellular vesicles (EV). We aimed to investigate whether the miRNA content of EV secreted by primary normal human bronchial epithelial cells (NHBE) is altered upon asthma development.
Methods: NHBE cells were cultured at air-liquid interface and treated with interleukin (IL)-13 to induce an asthma-like phenotype. EV isolations by precipitation from basal culture medium or apical surface wash were characterized by nanoparticle tracking analysis, transmission electron microscopy, and Western blot, and EV-associated miRNAs were identified by a RT-qPCR-based profiling. Significant candidates were confirmed in EVs isolated by size-exclusion chromatography from nasal lavages of children with mild-to-moderate (n = 8) or severe asthma (n = 9), and healthy controls (n = 9).
Results: NHBE cells secrete EVs to the apical and basal side. 47 miRNAs were expressed in EVs and 16 thereof were significantly altered in basal EV upon IL-13 treatment. Expression of miRNAs could be confirmed in EVs from human nasal lavages. Of note, levels of miR-92b, miR-210, and miR-34a significantly correlated with lung function parameters in children (FEV1 FVC%pred and FEF25-75%pred ), thus lower sEV-miRNA levels in nasal lavages associated with airway obstruction. Subsequent ingenuity pathway analysis predicted the miRNAs to regulate Th2 polarization and dendritic cell maturation.
Conclusion: Our data indicate that secretion of miRNAs in EVs from the airway epithelium, in particular miR-34a, miR-92b, and miR-210, might be involved in the early development of a Th2 response in the airways and asthma.
The SC2 mechanism allows junior investigators who are beginning an independent research career, i.e., in the early stages of an academic career and who have not had independent research support, to test a new idea or gather preliminary data to establish a new line of research. Guidance from productive, established, and well-funded U.S. scientist(s) in the proposed field of research is required. The advisor should be an established, NIH-funded investigator in the proposed research area and must have a track record of success in advising research scientists in the acquisition of external support and the maintenance of an independent research laboratory. The advisor may be from the applicant institution or any other domestic institution. Foreign advisors are not allowed.
The ultimate goal of the SC2 award is to foster the transition of PDs/PIs to other external research support. Therefore, it should be viewed as a first step in becoming an independently-funded investigator established in a given biomedical area covered by the NIH mission. Individuals that have already achieved independent research support are not suitable candidates for SC2 support. Since SC2 grantees are expected to increase their research competitiveness and be able to succeed in securing subsequent research funding with the help of a research advisor, detailed research enhancement objectives and plans to accomplish them are required, as well as information on the advisor's role and the advisor's plan to assist in and monitor the PD/PI's research development (see Section IV below).
The principal difference between an SC2 pilot project and an SC1 or SC3 award is that the SC2 allows an individual who has not had external research support to study and develop a new idea for which he/she has no preliminary data. The SC3 is for individuals who have already conducted research and published in an area, i.e., already have preliminary data. Any individual planning to submit a pilot research project is advised to assess the field of study, evaluate his/her credentials and expertise, determine the resources necessary to conduct the project, and work on a clear hypothesis before initiating the writing of an application. Pilot project support may be requested for one to three years maximum and is not renewable. PDs/PIs who successfully complete a pilot project may apply for an SC1 or SC3 or other NIH funding opportunity depending on their future developmental needs and goals.
Apart from having an advisor, SC2 PDs/PIs are encouraged to establish meaningful collaborations with R01-funded investigators in the U.S., particularly outside of the applicant's institution, that will increase the progress and productivity of the project. These collaborators or consultants should be recognized experts in a field and should have their own research support, i.e., SC2 funds may not be used to fund a consultant's or collaborator's research project. Collaborators, who may be from the applicant institution or another domestic institution, generally provide expertise in a specific aspect of the proposed project in which the PD/PI has little or no experience. Collaborators from other domestic institutions cannot receive any support from a SCORE award nor can a SCORE project be fully dependent on the collaborators' research resources (e.g., space, personnel, equipment, animal or other specialized facilities) as it is expected that a SCORE PD/PI will conduct his/her research project at his/her institution. Consultants from domestic institutions other than the applicant institution are individuals who have committed to contributing intellectually to the scientific project development or execution but are not committing any specified measurable effort (in person months) to the project. Foreign advisors, collaborators and/or consultants are not allowed. Student training is not permitted in SCORE. PD/PIs may hire part-time or full-time technicians who will help them move the research forward and increase the pace and productivity of their projects.
If the PD/PI of an SC2 award succeeds in transitioning to non-SCORE support (e.g., an NIH R award or any other federal/private grant) while the SC2 award is still active, he/she is expected to complete the SCORE award, unless there is scientific overlap between the two projects. In this instance, the SC2 award will be terminated. Once the SC2 award is completed or terminated, the PD/PI will no longer be eligible to apply for SCORE support.
SCORE investigator-initiated research projects are limited to the scope of the NIH mission. Clinical trials or clinical interventions are not supported by SCORE developmental awards. Upon receipt, SC2 grant applications are assigned to NIGMS. In the event of an award, the programmatic management of the SC2 may be transferred to another NIH Institute or Center (IC) that has historically participated in SCORE based on the scientific content of the award and according to established NIH referral guidelines.
High cholesterol is one of the most common cause of cardiovascular disease. The avoidance of cardiovascular disease is vital to minimizing the risk of cardiovascular disease as well as strokes. The therapies for high cholesterol involve drugs and healthy lifestyle renovations. The healthy way of living enhancements contain a balanced diet plan, regular exercise, and also weight control. Turmeric Curcumin Blen For Cholesterol
Diet regimen is the foundation of cholesterol control. There are a number of vital foods to think about. Vegetables and fruits are abundant in nutrients as well as fiber. Lean meats, poultry, fish, egg whites, and also dairy products are all wonderful options. Furthermore, vegetables and fruits have nearly two-thirds of their calories, so a healthy diet can assist maintain triglycerides in check. Turmeric Curcumin Blen For Cholesterol
Turmeric Curcumin Blen For Cholesterol
Diet regimens that are reduced in saturated fat and cholesterol, high in fiber, and low in salt are the best choices for a healthy diet regimen. Lowering cholesterol via diet alone can minimize the threat of heart problem such as coronary artery illness (CAD) and stroke. People with high blood pressure should additionally make an effort to keep their blood pressure reduced. Blood pressure increases the threat of establishing cholesterol-related conditions, so it should be regulated as well. Turmeric Curcumin Blen For Cholesterol
Smoking cigarettes or making use of other cigarette products has been displayed in countless research studies to elevate LDL cholesterol degrees as well as lower HDL cholesterol degrees. This is why stopping cigarette smoking is so essential. Other contributors to cholesterol include obesity, physical inactivity, alcohol consumption, and also the presence of various other danger factors, such as diabetes, heart disease, and cancer. Additionally, some drugs, consisting of anabolic steroids, have actually been revealed to cause cholesterol. Every one of these contributors to cholesterol are avoidable.
It is not always easy to evaluate nutrition tags. Nourishment tags should detail the quantity of hydrogenated fat, cholesterol, as well as fiber in the product. Numerous foods that taste wonderful may in fact have high quantities of hydrogenated fat and also cholesterol, even if they classify their food as “fat free”. This is due to the reality that several trans fats, typically used as a chemical in lots of foods, raise cholesterol degrees in the body. Fiber is not just great for you, however it lowers the absorption of fat. A diet high in fiber can substantially reduce the risk of establishing cardiovascular disease.
Omega 3 fats are plentiful in fish, nuts, as well as seeds. Taking fish oils, consisting of oily fish such as tuna, salmon, and also just how, can help lower LDL cholesterol. They can also help reduced high blood pressure as well as may aid to prevent kind 2 diabetic issues as well as cancer. Various other nuts, seeds, as well as oils that can assist reduced cholesterol are walnuts, canola, sunflower seeds, and also flax seed oil.
If you smoke, lowering your cigarette usage is a vital action in the direction of reducing your high blood pressure as well as taking control of your cholesterol degrees. Smoking is just one of the main danger elements for heart disease. If you incorporate tobacco use with reduced physical task, you are establishing yourself up for future health problems. Physical activity reduces your high blood pressure and also routine exercise is an important part of a healthy and balanced way of living. Even a percentage of routine exercise can make a huge distinction in your general wellness.
Consuming extra fruits, vegetables, entire grains, beans, fish, poultry, and lean meats will keep your heart healthy and balanced as well as reduce cholesterol while boosting your general wellness. Low cholesterol is a necessary part of a healthy way of life. By making just a few lifestyle modifications, you can lower your cholesterol as well as decrease your threat for cardiac condition and other heart problems. If you are concerned about your cholesterol, consult your doctor today and also make some easy modifications in your everyday diet regimen that will certainly have a favorable effect on your heart and your total health and wellness.
Lake Regional Provides Penicillin Skin Testing, Explains Need | Lake Regional Health System
Lake Regional Provides Penicillin Skin Testing, Explains Need
People who have had an allergic reaction to penicillin might believe they need to avoid it for life. But for most people, that's not true. In fact, 80 percent of people who have an allergic reaction to penicillin lose their allergy within 10 years, if not exposed to penicillin again in that time period.
"Unfortunately, most people who lose their penicillin allergy do not realize it," said Kristen Eblen, antimicrobial stewardship lead pharmacist at Lake Regional Health System. "As a result, their doctors must prescribe more powerful antibiotics to treat simple infections. This increases their chances of having severe side effects and developing difficult-to-treat infections. For example, patients who report a penicillin allergy are more likely to develop C. difficile, a serious infection causing severe diarrhea and even death. They also are more likely to develop MRSA, a difficult-to-treat infection usually requiring IV antibiotics."
To help people avoid these negative effects, Lake Regional Outpatient Services now provides penicillin skin testing, a safe way to determine if a penicillin allergy is still active.
Testing usually takes about two hours to complete. The skin is pricked and injected with weak solutions of penicillin and observed for a reaction. This may cause discomfort due to itching, but it is not painful.
A positive skin reaction is an itchy, red bump that lasts about half an hour and then resolves. A positive test indicates that the person is truly allergic. People with a positive test should continue to avoid penicillin.
If the patient completes the skin testing without a positive reaction, a single oral dose of full-strength penicillin is commonly given to confirm that the patient does not have an allergy to the medication. About three percent or less of people with a history of penicillin allergy and a negative skin test will still experience an allergic reaction. However, these reactions are very mild.
If a person has a negative skin test and has no reaction to an oral dose of the antibiotic, no future precautions are necessary.
Approximately 90 percent of people will test negative — meaning they do not have a penicillin allergy — either because they lost the allergy or because they were never truly allergic in the first place. These people can safely take penicillin and related antibiotics. Their chance of an allergic reaction is as low as most people's.
When is Testing Not Recommended?
Penicillin skin testing does not provide any information about certain types of reactions. These include extensive blistering and peeling of the skin (Stevens-Johnson syndrome or toxic epidermal necrolysis), a widespread sunburn-like reaction that later peeled (erythroderma) or a rash composed of small bulls-eyes or target-like spots (erythema multiforme). People with these types of reactions should never again be given the medication that caused the reaction. This applies to all situations because a second exposure could cause a severe progressive reaction and even death.
The first step to getting this important test is to discuss it with a doctor.
"Your doctor will ask about your penicillin allergy — when it occurred and what symptoms you had," Eblen said. "If they determine you are a good candidate for this testing, they will issue an order. Getting tested is especially important if you are having an upcoming surgery, are prone to COPD exacerbations or pneumonia, or are frequently prescribed antibiotics."
University, Tehran In this paper we try to introduce some disease increasing. Another approach to understanding morphogenesis is to study how the difference in the shape of buds and hyphae is generated. Work in Adnane Sellam 39;s laboratory is supported by.
Facilitating research on Candida on Candida albicans. A mini is an important fungal pathogen in humans. Candida albicans — Wikipedia is an opportunistic pathogenic yeast that is a common member of the human. A regular resident of our microbiome - and especially ubiquitous in the lungs of cystic fibrosis patients -the Candida albicans fungus is an "opportunistic pathogen.
In other systems where differentiation is well understood, regulatory genes which control differentiation have been uncovered. Net News and Research.
Candida species — Journal of Medical Microbiology presents a brief 90 of invasive infections are caused by Candida albicans. De term microbioom Writing plus research paper verwijst naar een complete collectie van micro-organismen, inclusief genetisch materiaal genoom en interacties met de omgeving, in dit geval de mens.
Dissertations Thanks to Suman Ghosh for allowing me to continue his work on the aromatic. However, the difficulty is to clone the putative genes involved in morphogenesis or pathogenesis. As part of an ongoing battle between microbes, certain bacteria, which are also found in cystic fibrosis patientssecrete molecules preventing the fungus from changing into its stringy shape.
Thus it is possible to study the role of any cloned gene through directed mutagenesis. We Fpga research papers offer real benefits to our authors, including fast-track processing of papers.
Study of Candida albicans and its interactions with the host: To see if there could be a genetic explanation, the researchers sequenced the genomes of these samples and found a common denominator.
Therefore, this article only focuses on some key points of innate defenses against C. Genetic transformation and gene-disruption techniques were recently developed for the yeast.
It remains a possibility that conditions which induce hyphae formation may directly affect actin localization or cell-wall growth zones and cause differences in cell shape.
Full Length Research Paper nbsp; Occurrence of pathogenic fungi infections has increased rapidly Diagnostic checklist, medical tests, doctor questions, and research papers on candidiasis related signs or How to cite sources within a research paper apa symptoms can someone write my research paper.
Candida and Candidiasis — Candida Genome Database in the areas of of present Candida research were covered. Abstract Candida albicans is an opportunistic pathogen of human beings and other mammals. Candida albicans under a microscope. November 20,University of Toronto Candida albicans in its round and filamentous stringy shapes.
Modern research has confirmed the traditional medicinal uses and benefits of black seed oil. Instead of responding to the bacterial signals, the fungus kept to its stringy form.
These fungi have essentially learned to ignore the bacteria. It should be possible to clone genes coding for these proteins.
List Capital punishment argumentative research paper Writing a research paper kids of 37 disease conclusions in research papers causes of Mouth research papers on candidiasis lesions, patient stories, diagnostic guides.
Examination of Candida albicans strains from South Africa for the ; secondary metabolites; gliotoxin; tryptophol; dehydro eburical. All but one had genetic mutations in a gene known to repress the change shape - called NRG1.Candida Facts Paper. This Candida Facts Paper contains 75+ candida research studies, taken from the over 62, studies mint-body.com of the doctors who have consulted with me over the past 34 years have asked for more information and references to better educate themselves, their.
FREE candidiasis Papers & candidiasis Essays at #1 ESSAYS BANK since ! BIGGEST and the BEST ESSAYS BANK. candidiasis Essays, candidiasis PAPERS, Courseworks, candidiasis Term Papers, candidiasis Research Papers and unique candidiasis papers from mint-body.com Candidiasis is the most common type of yeast infection.
A yeast infection results from an overgrowth of yeast (a type of fungus) anywhere in the body. These fungi live on all surfaces of our bodies. Current trends in Candida albicans research. Datta A(1), Ganesan K, Natarajan K. Author information: (1)Molecular Biology Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi, India.
Candida albicans is an opportunistic pathogen of human beings and other mammals. Two other features, besides its pathogenicity, have made it. Study sheds new light on Candida albicans, mysterious fungus that has major health consequences November 20,University of Toronto Candida albicans in.
Based research papers on candidiasis on various research we have created an extensive list and explained. UK national evidence-based guidelines on sexual infection screening and management.
The purpose of this study is to evaluate the safety, efficacy and pharmacokinetic (PK) parameters of plecanatide of once daily oral 3 dose levels of plecanatide (0.5, 1.0, or 1.5 mg) for 4 weeks as treatment in children 6 to <18 years of age with IBS-C. The study will include ...
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is one of the most common gastrointestinal disorders, with a global prevalence of 11% according to a recent meta-analysis. The total cost of managing IBS in the United States is in excess of $30 billion per year, including indirect costs relating to loss of productivity of ...
Diarrhea-dominated irritable bowel syndrome (IBS-D) is studied in subjects by treatment with an anaerobic human intestinal microbiota cultured for 15 years and quality controlled with a specified content of bacterial species regularly over the years. Inclusion criteria is: Diarrheal disease since at least 4 weeks, 18-80 years of age, previously ...
Compare the effects of Colesevelam versus the placebo on diabetic subjects with chronic diarrhea. In this study, diabetic subjects will get either the Colesevelam or the placebo, not both. The plan is to have about 30 subjects complete this study at Mayo Clinic.
PRESS RELEASE: Crucell's Rabies Antibody Cocktail Granted Fast Track Status | FierceBiotech
PRESS RELEASE: Crucell's Rabies Antibody Cocktail Granted Fast Track Status
Leiden, The Netherlands, 13 November 2007 - Dutch biotechnology company Crucell N.V. (Euronext, NASDAQ: CRXL, Swiss Exchange: CRX) today announced that it has been notified by the Food and Drug Administration's (FDA) Department of Health and Human Services that its rabies monoclonal antibody cocktail has been granted a Fast Track designation.
Crucell is developing the rabies antibody cocktail for the post-exposure prophylaxis of rabies. The antibody cocktail is a combination of two human monoclonal antibodies and it is produced with the use of Crucell's MAbstract® and PER.C6® technologies. Based on market needs, peak sales for Crucell's cocktail are expected to exceed $300 million.
Crucell already contracted DSM Biologics, its alliance partner for the PER.C6® technology platform, for the process validation and manufacturing of antibody batches for phase III clinical efficacy studies.
Crucell develops the antibody cocktail using its PER.C6® technology, which offers large-scale manufacturing capabilities and production under serum-free culture conditions. Crucell's rabies monoclonal antibody cocktail offers the potential for replacing the traditional serum-derived products that are currently still used for the treatment of rabies. Based on market needs, peak sales for Crucell's cocktail are expected to exceed $300 million.
Crucell N.V. (Euronext, NASDAQ: CRXL; Swiss Exchange: CRX) is a biotechnology company focused on research, development and worldwide marketing of vaccines and antibodies that prevent and treat infectious diseases. Its vaccines are sold in public and private markets worldwide. Crucell's core portfolio includes a vaccine against hepatitis B, a fully-liquid vaccine against five important childhood diseases, and a virosome-adjuvanted vaccine against influenza. Crucell also markets travel vaccines, such as the only oral anti-typhoid vaccine, an oral cholera vaccine and the only aluminium-free hepatitis A vaccine on the market. The Company has a broad pipeline, with several products based on its unique PER.C6® production technology in development. The Company licenses this and other technologies to the biopharmaceutical industry. Important partners and licensees include DSM Biologics, sanofi aventis, Novartis, Wyeth and Merck & Co. Crucell is headquartered in Leiden (the Netherlands), with subsidiaries in Switzerland, Spain, Italy, Sweden, Korea and the US. The Company employs over a 1000 people. For more information, please visit www.crucell.com
Medical Technologist or Medical Laboratory Scientist Day Shift needed - Portland jobs
Medical Technologist or Medical Laboratory Scientist Day Shift needed
Generalist opening in Portland, Maine. Medical Technologist-Core Lab, needed in Maine Day or Evening shift-full time permanent placement About the Facility: Laboratory setting within a hospital right on the water on the coast of Maine. Vacation destination and a beautiful place to live. About the Position: Medical Technologist ASCP certification required. The Medical Technologist independently perform detailed and complex analyses of patient specimens. The position recognizes problems, identifies causes (technical, instrument or physiological), synthesizes alternatives and determines solutions. S/he confirms, interprets, correlates, verifies and reports normal and abnormal patient results based on an in-depth knowledge of instrument functions, physiological principles and disease conditions. The position trains and monitors other clinical laboratory personnel, as well as uses laboratory computer systems to obtain relevant patient information and input test results. For more information about the position please contact Chelsey at: [Click Here to Apply] or call [Click Here to Apply] 5" data-tooltip-number="+ [Click Here to Apply] 5"> [Click Here to Apply] . You may also submit your resume directly for review!
Keywords: KA Recruiting Inc., Portland , Medical Technologist or Medical Laboratory Scientist Day Shift needed, Healthcare , Portland, Maine
