Jennifer Zelmer quotes
All Jennifer Zelmer
Authors > Jaz Jen > Jennifer Zelmer
"We found that over half of patients visiting emergency departments were there for less-urgent or non-urgent conditions, things like chronic back pain or a sore throat. Whereas at the other extreme, less than one per cent who visited emergency rooms were most severely ill - people with diagnoses of shock or major trauma."
Jennifer Zelmer quote
"The median wait time is 51 minutes."
"Where alternatives are available, this raises questions about whether a portion of these types of patients can be appropriately treated in non-emergency department settings, such as primary health care clinics."
"The urgent conditions seem to be seen quickly, while the wait is quite a bit longer for non-urgent cases."
"If we are to understand emergency department wait times in Canada, we must first understand how emergency departments are used."
"One thing that's important to remember is that these are individual patients -- your son or daughter who went to an emergency with a broken arm or your grandma who ended up there with a heart condition."
"For kids, there's a second peak in the evening, perhaps because parents are getting home, doing that last check before bed."
Recent studies had proven that the disease has become resistant to antibiotics. Patients with an increased life risk because of the invading bacterium are recommended to take the medicine even though some experts argue about its effects.
Salmonella is classified as a rod-shaped, Gram-negative, very varied genus of bacteria that are usually found in the intestines of human and animals. Unlike other bacteria such as clostridium botulinum, Salmonella is actually harmful to the body once it is ingested. It is so dangerous that every year, there's an estimated report of 19,000 hospitalizations and 380 deaths that are all from Salmonella infection. But unlike other diseases, Salmonella has a cure.
Some experts argue that if you intake an antibiotic, it can only prolong the stay of the bacteria in your system, thus increasing the chances of infecting others. While there are some who explain that even though using antibiotics can be dangerous to some, it is still recommended.
In situations where antibiotics are needed, there are three types of antibiotics that the doctors most recommend. Trimethoprim/sulfamethoxazole, ampicillin or amoxicillin are the best choices for patients. Although there are other medicines such as flouroquinolones, these three stand out since they don't require an age bracket in order for them to become effective. The specific antibiotic that will then be chosen depends on the susceptibility of the bacteria and the possible ability to fight treatment.
Rite Aid and Physician Direct ACO Partner to Expand Rite Aid Health Alliance Program – Neurology Careers
Skip to content
Menu
Neurology Careers
Home
Careers
by Location
Post
Channels
CH
Close Menu
Rite Aid and Physician Direct ACO Partner to Expand Rite Aid Health Alliance Program
Press Releases
Member Physicians, Rite Aid Pharmacists and Special Care Coaches to Provide Personalized, Community-Based Health Management to Chronic and Poly-Chronic Patients
CAMP HILL, Pa. (November 11, 2014) – Rite Aid Corporation (NYSE:RAD) has announced Physician Direct ACO, based in Sylvan Lake, Mich., as the latest healthcare provider to join its Rite Aid Health Alliance initiative. Through Rite Aid Health Alliance, physicians, Rite Aid pharmacists and special care coaches provide comprehensive care and support to individuals with chronic and poly-chronic health conditions, helping them achieve health improvement goals established by their physicians.
“Since launching our Rite Aid Health Alliance program, we’ve received positive feedback from our physician partners, care coaches, pharmacists and patients alike,” said Robert Thompson, Rite Aid executive vice president of pharmacy. “As we continue to expand Rite Aid Health Alliance, we are excited to announce Physician Direct ACO as our latest Rite Aid Health Alliance partner and to be working with them to improve the health and wellbeing of the chronic and poly-chronic patients in northern Oakland County.”
Rite Aid’s Health Alliance integrated care model is a first for the drugstore industry, because it uniquely leverages the combined expertise of community pharmacists, who are one of the most accessible and trusted resources among healthcare providers, along with specially trained in-store care coaches. Physicians can refer patients who they feel would benefit from additional coaching in areas such as medication management and meal and exercise planning. All members of the care team will communicate regularly with physicians in a true partnership to improve patients’ overall health.
“Through Rite Aid’s Health Alliance program, we’ll be able to further our mission of being a leader in the delivery of high quality and cost effective healthcare,” said Rodger Prong, Physician Direct ACO executive director. “By working closely with Rite Aid pharmacists and care coaches, physicians will be in an even greater position to help their patients successfully manage their condition and achieve desired health outcomes.”
Through Rite Aid Health Alliance, patients with chronic conditions, such as congestive heart failure, COPD, high cholesterol and diabetes, are recommended to the program by their primary care physician. Rite Aid pharmacists and specially trained care coaches, located in Rite Aid pharmacies, work with the physician and patient on an on-going basis to improve the patient’s overall health and self-management abilities. The care team members collaborate with the patient to establish health goals, eliminate barriers and create a personalized health care action plan in coordination with the patient’s physician.
Rite Aid previously announced that it is piloting Rite Aid Health Alliance partnerships with High Point, N.C.-based Cornerstone Health Care; Glendale, Calif.-based Apollo Medical Holdings, Inc. (“ApolloMed”); Greater Buffalo United Accountable Healthcare Network of Buffalo, N.Y.; Penn State Hershey Health System of Hershey, Pa.; and Heritage Provider Network based in Marina Del Rey, Calif.
In these markets at select Rite Aid pharmacies, Rite Aid provides the care coaches on the team through its wholly owned subsidiary Health Dialog, a leading provider of healthcare patient support, analytics and decision support. Health Dialog coaches will be available in Rite Aid pharmacies, and specialize in behavior change to help patients address lifestyle health issues.
The full range of services available to patients participating in Rite Aid Health Alliance includes medication compliance support; comprehensive medication reviews and reconciliation; nutrition and weight management information; disease education; exercise coaching and tobacco cessation support. Records of all interactions, which occur in Rite Aid pharmacies, as well as updates from the physician, are stored electronically, along with patient profiles including medications and lab results. This supports continuity of care and provides convenient access of information to other members of the patient’s healthcare team.
Rite Aid Corporation is one of the nation’s leading drugstore chains with nearly 4,600 stores in 31 states and the District of Columbia and fiscal 2014 annual revenues of $25.5 billion. Information about Rite Aid, including corporate background and press releases, is available through the company’s website at www.riteaid.com.
SOURCE: Rite Aid
Related Posts
Press Releases
Recurly Recovers Nearly $800 Million in Revenue for Customers in 2021
Press Releases
The Trade Desk Launches New Certified Service Partner Program for Small and Medium-Sized Businesses
Press Releases
SAP and Unilever Pilot Blockchain Technology to Support Deforestation-Free Palm Oil
SPONSOR & POST
Feature your Brand & Jobs. Sponsor the Front Page of this site for less than $50 per month. Sponsors can be featured on the Front Page, Categories, Cities & Footer. Learn How
Back To Top
Neurology Careers
Copyright © BusinessMVP.com
All Rights Reserved!
SPONSOR & POST
Feature your Brand & Jobs. Sponsor the Front Page of this site for less than $50 per month. Sponsors can be featured on the Front Page, Categories, Cities & Footer. Learn How
Small intestinal bacterial overgrowth is a significant clinical problem, which is difficult to diagnose accurately and for which the optimal therapeutic options are not defined. The concept of discovering novel biomarkers in biofluids or VOCs from biological samples to aid with SIBO diagnosis is attractive. The advantages of these techniques are manifold: rapid, non-invasive and requiring minimal preanalysis sample preparation. Of course, there is one major obstacle in both cases – the lack of a 'gold standard' diagnostic test for SIBO. This will make the interpretation of data challenging.
To validate the possible usefulness of any of these techniques in SIBO, diagnosis would necessitate the use of carefully defined groups of patients. There would then be potential to define a highly sensitive and specific test, which could revolutionise the diagnosis, and therefore management, of SIBO. In addition, the techniques described could identify novel biomarkers, potentially allowing patient stratification to facilitate a more personalised approach to tailoring antibiotic treatment to the individual. Thus, there would be a reduced alteration of the symbiotic GI microbiota caused by unnecessary antibiotic administration.
As the techniques are designed to detect all of the biochemical metabolites present simultaneously in a single measurement, it is likely that one or more will be shown to be superior to the currently available diagnostic methods for SIBO. Proving this hypothesis could open a new avenue in gastroenterology practice and research.
Depression may speed brain aging: research
16 Feb 2019, 23:07 GMT+10
PanARMENIAN.Net - Memory and thinking skills naturally slow with age but now scientists are peeking inside living brains to tell if depression might worsen that decline - and finding some worrisome clues, CBS reports.
Depression has long been linked to certain cognitive problems, and depression late in life even may be a risk factor for the development of Alzheimer's. Yet how depression might harm cognition isn't clear.
Yale University scientists used a new technique to scan the brains of living people - and discovered that patients with depression had a lower density of synapses than healthy people the same age.
The lower the density, the more severe the depression symptoms, particularly problems with attention and loss of interest in previously pleasurable activities, Yale neuroscientist Irina Esterlis said Thursday at a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. She wasn't studying just seniors but a range of ages including people too young for any cognitive changes to be obvious outside of a brain scan - on the theory that early damage can build up.
'We think depression might be accelerating the normal aging,' she said.
Esterlis is planning a larger study to do that. It's delicate research. Volunteers are injected with a radioactive substance that binds to a protein in the vesicles, or storage bins, used by synapses. Then during a PET scan, areas with synapses light up, allowing researchers to see how many are in different regions of the brain.
But other brain experts said the preliminary findings are a reminder of how important it is to treat depression promptly, so people don't spend years suffering.
'If your mood isn't enough to make you go and get treated, then hopefully your cognition is,' said Dr. Mary Sano, who directs the Mount Sinai Alzheimer's Disease Research Center in New York and wasn't involved in the new research.
With depression 'at any age, there's a hit on the brain. At an older age the hit may be more visible because there may already be some loss,' she explained.
The University of Toronto's Etienne Sibille is developing a compound to target yet another piece of the puzzle, brain receptors that are impaired with both aging and depression. Mouse studies showed it could reverse stress-induced memory loss, he said. Any human testing is at least several years away.
Women's hockey has avid fans but needs a corporate cash infusion
Kawhi Leonard recently registered one of the most iconic moments in Toronto Raptors history with his Game 7 buzzer-beater against ...
Clashing rights: Behind the Quebec hijab debate
The Coalition Avenir Quebec (CAQ) government has introduced Bill 21, a law that would supposedly entrench religious neutrality in the ...
We need new treaties to address the growing problem of space debris
Space debris represents the spread of our scorched-earth habits into space. Earth and the orbital space around it are a ...
Physical exercise naturally treats psychiatric patients: Study
Washington [USA], May 26 (ANI): A new study has recommended physical exercise as a natural way to treat patients with ...
Zarif Calls For Improved Ties With Gulf Neighbors Amid U.S. Tensions
Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif has reiterated that his country wanted to build balanced relations with its Arab neighbors ...
Iran's foreign minister has reiterated Tehran's proposal to sign a non-aggression treaty with the countries in the Persian Gulf region ...
Teenager Potapova 'speechless' after stunning 'idol' Kerber
Paris - Russian teenager Anastasia Potapova said she was left "speechless" after knocking out her "idol" Angelique Kerber in the ...
Los Angeles - Kevin Na fired a one-under par 69 on Saturday to take a two-shot lead in the PGA ...
Grand Slam clock ticking for weary Serena
Paris - With her 38th birthday fast approaching, the clock is ticking for Serena Williams and on her pursuit of ...
Head And Neck Cancer Voice Disorders - Doctor answers on HealthTap
The treatment of head and neck cancer often involves surgery, radiation therapy and/or chemotheapy either alone or most often in combination. Most are managed by a multidisiplinary team consisiting of surgeons, radiation oncologists, medical oncologists, swallowing and voice therapists, social workers among others. There are many successes in the treatment of head and neck cancers these days.
Living after treatment requires attention to rehabilitation (swallowing & speech therapy, voice prosthesis if needed); supportive care for chronic side effects (salagen or exovac for mouth dryness, neck or oral exercises for radiation side effects); long-term dental and oral care; lifestyle changes (diet modification- less fat/red meat, more veggies; quit alcohol & smoking; regular exercise, etc).
The issue or area of concern (e.G a visible neck lump, sore throat, or hoarse voice) will be directly examined by your physician (often by a laryngoscope). The next step is biopsies and scans (ct, mri, pet). The final diagnosis is made by reviewing the biospy specimen by pathologists and sometimes running special tests like the hpv test for viral linked cancer.
Head and neck cancer, since it usually presents earlier than other cancers, is in general quite treatable either by surgery, chemotherapy or radiation or a combination. The smaller the lesion the better the cure rates. It is rare for these cancers to be asymptomatic. Hoarseness, throat pain, trouble swallowing, ear pain and throat pain together all are warning symptoms. Smokers and drinkers beware.
Outcomes in head and neck cancer depend on the overall stage of the cancer. Staging is dependent on tumor size, lymph nodes involved, if the tumor has spread, and other factors.
Head/neck cancers are typically environmentally driven- smoking, alcohol, tobacoo chewing, virus infections (hpv and ebv virus) are the causative factors. Some head/neck cancers such as thyroid cancers can be hereditary though.
The world health organization shows about 28 different types of salivary gland tumors, 35 thyroid gland tumors, 40 sinonasal tract tumors, about 18 larynx tumors, a dozen or more ear tumors. So -- while squamous cell carcinoma accounts for the majority of tumors, there are "hundreds" of tumor types in the head and neck.
I believe you are asking about this trial. Please check out this website for more info and participating institutions. http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/nct01265849?term=multikine+head+and+neck;rank=1.
Head and neck cancer includes all cancer that can occur in the head and neck region excluding the brain. It includes all skin cancers, lymphoma, sarcoma, sqamous cell carcinoma and many others.
Life expectancy is really based on the cancer type, the amount of spread and the response to treatment given. The oncologist treating this disorder would be the best source of information in answering this question.
Research papers on accounting ethics Essay Academic Service
Click here click here click here click here click here this amazing site, which includes experienced business for 9 years, is one of the leading. Ethics in accounting by pace university – new york accounting for decision making, mba 640 fall 2011 required research paper page 1 of 11 table of contents. Accounting information systems and ethics research zalkin, accounting information systems and ethics papers the role of accounting in the. Free research paper accounting ethics this paper is about accounting,ethics,accountants,public,profession,ethical,education,laws.
Ethics in accounting research papers 19 tháng mười hai, 2017 whittier law school admission essay changing essays in art criticism pdf to jpg, jessica mitford. Read this research paper and over 1,500,000 studymode - premium and free essays, term papers & book 2004 ethics in accounting ethics are not merely. Accounting ethics essayswhat are accounting ethics and dilemmas within the accounting field all papers are for research and reference purposes only. View accounting ethics research papers on academiaedu for free. Search wharton search this site accounting department menu.
Research design section of a research paper renaissance humanism essay dissertation sur la loi de finance, advertisement analysis essay conclusion write a research. The impact of ethics courses on purpose of this research is to measure and compare the business papers on accounting education it made the following. Accounting in research ethics papers dissertation services uk yoga ieee research papers on vlsi design keys jackson: december 18.
On ethics papers accounting research why do i have to waste my time writing a religion essay when i could be doing something that will actually help me in life. European research studies volume vi, issue (1-2), 2003 business ethics, corporate social responsibility and corporate governance: a review and summary critique. Papers as well as empirical research ethics in accounting 2011, accounting ethics (willey-blackwell malden, ma) av pearson, 21.
Read this business research paper and over 88,000 other research documents ethics in accounting financial decision-making is one of the most important things in our.
Accounting ethics: some research note carmen bonaci department of accounting babes-bolyai university cluj napoca, fsega t mihali 58-60, 400591 cluj napoca.
Essay/term paper: accounting ethics essay, term paper, research paper: college papers see all college papers and term papers on college papers.
The impact factor measures the average number of citations received in a particular year by papers management accounting research publishing ethics. On accounting ethics papers research you know youre an an english student when friends on a science course ring you to ask how many pages people usually write in a. 5 code of ethics in academic research introduction starting with the notion of academic freedom as the leading principle of our research, at all levels, the european. Free accounting ethics papers, essays, and research papers.
crucial Archives - Patriot News Organization
Early in the morning on October 2, President Donald Trump tweeted that he had tested positive for COVID-19. Only 33 days away from a highly contentious election, the diagnosis plunged the nation into uncertainty. Doctors, scientists and pundits quickly began speculating…
(HealthDay)—The COVID-19 pandemic has shown a spotlight on disparities in the U.S. health care system. But the issues are longstanding, and—as one large study illustrates—extend into a common elective surgery. Researchers found that when hip replacement surgery is done at…
Product Code: Pygeum for men 100 mg. 60 capsules
Ozurdex 700mcg. Dexamethasone 20 mg. 20 tablets
Pygeum africanum is an evergreen tree bark that occurs in certain regions of Africa. In general, the bark is not used until the tree grows completely. It contains three groups of active ingredients: phytosterols (such as beta - sitosterol), pentacyclic triterpenoids (including oleic and ursic acids) and fructal esters of long chain fatty alcohols (including fructol esters of docosanol and tetracosanol).
The tree bark contains oil with many active ingredients: waxes, fatty acids and other less well-known compounds. The basal biological activity of the pyageum is due to phytosterols, known as beta-sitosterols.
Why should we take Pygeum?
It has been proven that the Pigueum has many benefits for human and prostate health. The plant is mainly used in benign prostatic hyperplasia, which involves two prostate changes: increase in size and increase tissue density. These changes cause symptoms such as: decrease of the secretions of the prostate, frequent urination urination of small amounts of urine and inability to empty the bladder. The latter increases the risk of bladder infections, swelling and inflammation.
It has been found that pigeon is useful in chronic prostatitis, prostate-related sexual dysfunction, and infertility due to reduced prostate secretion.
Phytosterols in the pyageum have anti-inflammatory properties. The plant also reduces edema (swelling caused by excess secretions) and levels of the hormone prolactin. It also normalizes blood glucose levels and improves immune system function.
Who needs it? Are there any side effects?
It is usually used to maintain prostate health in men over 50 years of age.
No drug interactions are known, but in some rare cases nausea may occur while taking Pygeum.
Pygeum (Pygeum africanum) - 100 mg (standardized to contain 12% Phytosterols).
Other Ingredients: Pumpkin seed oil, gelatin, glycerin, soya lecithin, yellow beeswax, purified water.
Dosage: Take one (1) gel capsule twice a day, preferably during a meal or on a prescription.
Caution: This product is intended for use by men. Not suitable for women. If you are taking any medicines, consult with your doctor if the dietary supplement would be suitable for you. Stop using it and consult your doctor if any side effects occur. It is not intended for use by persons under the age of 18 years. TO BE STORED BY CHILDREN. Store in a cool, dry place. Do not use the product if the bottle seal is broken.
Safety, Immunogenicity and Reactogenicity Trial of Mencevax ACW135 Vaccine - Full Text View - ClinicalTrials.gov
Safety, Immunogenicity and Reactogenicity Trial of Mencevax ACW135 Vaccine (ETH-TVT)
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT00994695
LSHTM,UK
To assess the immunogenicity of the Mencevax ACW135 polysaccharide vaccine at 28 days (+6days) post vaccination in 2-4, 5-14, 15-29 year age groups and compare the immunogenicity between these age groups.
To estimate the incidence of common adverse events following immunization (AEFI) of GSK Nm ACW135 polysaccharide vaccine at 1h, 1d, 2d, 3d, 7d and 28 days post-vaccination
To assess the persistence of antibody against meningitis A, C and W135 at 11 and 23 months post vaccination in 2-4, 5-14, 15-29 year age groups
Study site:Two rural communities (Kebele) in Butajira district, Ethiopia.
Phase II, open and parallel safety and immunogenicity trial.
234 younger children (2-4 years), 145 older children (5-14 years) and 33 adults (15-29 years of age) were randomly selected from the demographic surveillance database and enrolled after screening and consenting.
Study participant received Mencevax ACW polysaccharide vaccine 50 mg in 0.5ml subcutaneously.
Blood samples for measuring SBA titres were collected at pre vaccination and on day 28 (+6 days) post vaccination.
Active follow up for AEFI on post vaccination day 0, 1, 2, 3, 7, & 28.
Primary end point was vaccine response defined as sero-conversion (in subjects initially seronegative) or a 4 fold increase (in subjects initially seropositive) in serum bactericidal antibodies (SBA) against serogroups Men A, C and W135) on post vaccination day 28. In addition seroconversion was assessed by ELISA Men A IgG on day 0 and day 28 post vaccination.
Secondary endpoints were incidence of general and local symptoms and other adverse events following immunisation during the post vaccination period day 0 to 28 and immune persistence on post vaccination month-11 and month-23.
No significant difference in the incidence of general or local AEFI was observed between the age groups
The statistical analysis for the Immunogenicity data is in progress
Meningococcal Meningitis Biological: Mencevax ACW Vaccine Phase 2
Official Title: A Phase II Open and Parallel Safety, Immunogenicity and Reactogenicity Trial of Mencevax ACW135 Polysaccharide Vaccine Comparing Three Groups: 2 - 4 Year, 5 - 14 Year and 15 - 29 Year Old Ethiopians
Biological: Mencevax ACW Vaccine
Mencevax ACW polysaccharide vaccine subcutaneously in the left arm at 50 μg in 0.5ml(reconstituted).
Other Name: Mencevax ACW polysaccharide vaccine
To evaluate point estimates and trends in immunogenicity after not less than 28 days (+6 days) among children 2 - 4 years as compared to children 5 - 14 years and adolescents/adults 15 - 29 years (all ages inclusive) [ Time Frame: 28 days ]
To assess the incidence of adverse events following vaccination at 1h, 1d, 2d, 3d, 7d and 28 days post-vaccination. [ Time Frame: 28days ]
To assess the immunogenicity at 11 months and 23 months (inclusive) postvaccination. [ Time Frame: 23 month ]
Age between 2-29 years, both sexes, living in the selected villages of Butajira area
A written informed consent signed by the individual (>=18y) or caretaker/guardian (2 to 17 years of age) as 18 is the legal age of maturity in Ethiopia. Assent from children/adolescents aged 12-17 years old.
Free of obvious health problems ascertained by medical history and clinical examination on the day of enrolment
Those who are unlikely to complete the follow up at 4-weeks post-vaccination.
Administration of blood transfusion within 2 years prior to enrolment or planned use during the study period.
Verbal report of previous vaccination with meningococcal serogroup A, C, Y or W135 vaccines since 1999.
Confirmed or suspected immunosuppressive or immunodeficient condition including HIV infection.
Presence of any fever (defined as axillary temperature of 37.5 degree centigrade or more) and/or severe illness on the day of enrolment/ vaccination.
Please refer to this study by its ClinicalTrials.gov identifier (NCT number): NCT00994695
Butajira, Southern Nationality, Ethiopia
Principal Investigator: Abraham Aseffa Aseffa, M.D, PhD Senior Sientist,Deputy Director, AHRI
Principal Investigator: Ahmed Bedru Omer, M.D,Pediatrician Clinical Trial coordinator,AHRI
Aseffa A, Bedru A, Yamuah L, Arga D, Worku A, Chandramohan D, Nelson CB, Engers HD. Safety of a trivalent meningococcal ACW135 vaccine among young children in Ethiopia. Vaccine. 2007 Sep 3;25 Suppl 1:A79-82. Epub 2007 May 4.
Responsible Party: Dr.Ahmed Bedru Omer, One of the Principal Investigators., Armauer Hansen Research Institute
