The best way to increase your metabolic rate is eating at a regular time with enough calories, drinking green tea, get enough sleep, and many more. In this article, we are going to tell about the best way to increase your metabolic rate.
How to Increase your metabolic rate? (Image credit: Pixbay)
What is metabolism?
Metabolism is a term for a series of chemical reactions that take place in the cells of organisms to sustain life. Metabolic processes lead to growth and reproduction, which allows organisms to maintain structure and respond to their environment. Every chemical reaction that takes place in the body, from digestion to the transfer of substances from one cell to another, can be part of the metabolism. Intermediate metabolism or Intermediary metabolism is a term for the transfer of substances between different cells.
What is metabolism? (Video credit: Stated Clearly)
Can you boost your metabolism?
According to Eric Ravussin (director of the Nutrition Obesity Research Center at the Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Baton Rouge) boosting your metabolism is really a myth! She says, “As you are fighting biology, so there is a little hope of changing your resting metabolic rate.” So you cannot boost or speed up your metabolism literary but you can try to increase your metabolic rate though it is little. As still there has little hope to increase your metabolic rate according to Eric Ravussin!
The best way to increase your metabolic rate
It is said that some foods and beverages can promote metabolism, including black coffee, green tea, energy drinks, and spices. The evidence behind these claims is insufficient, or they are not effective long-term solutions. Although you cannot control the rate of your metabolism, you can control the number of calories burned through your physical activity level. Some people who are said to have a fast metabolism may be more active than others, or they may be more restless.
The best way to increase your metabolism (Video credit: alpha m.)
Here are the 17 most effective ways to burn calories:
Drink enough water
Build muscle mass
Eat enough calories
Eat enough protein at meal
Conscious about your eating time
Go For an evening walk
Drink green tea
Drink coffee
Drink a glass of water after walking up in the morning
Eat spicy foods
Add more sea food at your meal
Eat high fiber beans
Eat breakfast everyday
Take enough Vitamin D supplement
Perform high intensity workouts
Avoid alcohol
Get a good night sleep
Drink enough water
The scientific jury still has not determined whether water can increase metabolism. If there is any effect, it is probably due to heat production, so the water must be very cold. But till now it’s established in modern society that staying hydrated is essential for the best function of the body and it is true also! It can also help a person to lose weight. A study found that in a group of overweight women aged 18 to 23, adding 1.5 liters of water to their daily drinking water reduced average body weight and body mass index.
Advice: Drink 1.5-2 litter water daily not only to increase your metabolic rate but also for the best function of your body,
Build muscle mass
One of the most effective ways to increase your metabolic rate is to increase muscle mass. Because muscle tissue is the most metabolically active tissue in your body. The decomposition of old protein and the synthesis of new protein in your muscle accounts for about one-fifth of the resting metabolic rate. This is significantly higher than the metabolic rate of fat, which contributes only 5% to your daily resting metabolism on average. Therefore, gaining muscle tissue helps you build more metabolically active lean mass in your body, thereby increasing your calories burn, even if you are resting. For this, you need to actively engage in strength training. Including two or three strength training exercises, you can exercise all the main muscle groups of the body. Plus, strength training can help keep your basal metabolic rate higher and longer, preventing or compensating for muscle loss as you age.
Advice: To break the old protein and synthesize the mew protein build your muscle mass.
Eat enough calories
For losing weight some people skip meals However, this can have a negative impact on metabolism. Meals that are not full have the same effect. If you eat too few calories it will slow down your metabolism, so your body can save energy. Adult women need 1,600-2,400 calories per day. And adult Men need 2,000-3,000 calories per day.
Advice: Take enough calories which are needed for you and it may help for increasing your metabolic rate.
Eat enough protein at a meal
Eating food can increase metabolism within a few hours, which is called the thermic effect of food (TEF). It is caused by the extra calories needed to digest, absorb and process the nutrients in food. Protein causes the greatest increase in TEF. Compared with 5-10% of carbohydrates and 0-3% of fats, it can increase your metabolic rate by 15-30%. Eating protein has additionally been displayed to help you feel fuller and keep you from indulging.
Advice: Eating enough protein may help to increase your metabolic rate. So take enough protein.
Conscious about your eating time
The body depends on balance and regularity. Eating at a consistent time helps maintain metabolic balance. Otherwise, if a person eats a lot and then does not eat for a long time, the body will burn calories more slowly and store more fat cells. This trend ideally, a person should eat a few small meals or snacks about 3-4 hours apart.
Advice: You should be conscious about your eating time. Because already you know that eating at a consistent time may maintain your metabolic rate.
Go For an evening walk
Exercise is always good, but light evening activities like walking around the house can also be beneficial. Your metabolism slows down at the end of the day. If you do aerobic exercise about 30 minutes before meals, your metabolism will increase, which will boost your metabolism by 2-3 hours.
Advice: Walking around your home in the evening though it is little!
Drink green tea
Green tea has been proven to increase metabolism by 4% to 5%. Green tea helps to convert some of the fat stored in the body into free fatty acids, which can increase fat burning by 10% to17%. Due to their low-calorie content, drinking these teas is good for weight loss and weight maintenance. Its metabolism-promoting properties are believed to help prevent the terrible weight loss plateau due to decreased metabolism. However, some studies have found that these teas do not affect metabolism. Therefore, its impact may be small or only applicable to certain people.
Advice: Great tea may help to convert fat into a fatty acid in your body and also may help to increase your metabolic rate as well in certain people.
Drink coffee
Studies have shown that the caffeine in coffee can increase an individual’s metabolism by 3-11%. It promotes fat burning like green tea, but it seems to be most affected by lean people. One study tells that, coffee increased fat burning by 29% in lean women and only 10% in obese women. The effects of coffee on metabolism and fat burning can also contribute to successful weight loss and balance.
Advice: Don’t drink coffee after the evening. You can drink it in the morning.
Drink a glass of water after waking up in the morning
According to research, drinking water on an empty stomach can increase the metabolic rate. This is very important, especially for those who follow strict eating habits. When the metabolic rate increases, it means that your digestive system is improved. The essential carbohydrates and proteins you consume every day are metabolized and transported throughout the body through water. Having enough water in your system will help activate your metabolism and thus help your diet.
Advice: Don’t forget to drink water after leaving bed in the morning.
Eat spicy foods
Chili peppers contain capsaicin, a substance that can stimulate metabolism; however, many people cannot tolerate the doses of these spices required to achieve significant effects. According to research, acceptable doses of capsaicin predicted that eating peppers would burn about 10 extra calories per meal. Over 6.5 years, for a person of average weight, this may represent a weight loss of 1 pound (0.5 kg). Individually, the effect of adding spices to food may be small. However, when combined with other strategies to promote metabolism, it can bring slight advantages.
Advice: Don’t eat too many spicy foods. Because it can cause heartburn, stomach aches, and many more. So eat the acceptable amount of spicy foods per meal.
Add more seafood to your meal
Seafood is usually rich in protein and omega-3 fatty acids, both of which help promote metabolism. The Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition was published a study in which was, supplementing fish oil in the diet for six weeks increases lean muscle mass and reduces fat. Scientists speculate that this may be due to the ability of fish oil to reduce the level of fat-storage enzymes in the body.
Advice: You can eat all bony fishes like skates, rays, sharks, prawns, salmon, tuna, and many more for choosing the seafood.
Eat high fiber beans
We all know that a healthy diet is good for a healthy body and mind, but not everyone likes a healthy diet, even though we know all the benefits. Especially when it comes to eating vegetables and fruits, we have many excuses to avoid them. However, when it comes to beans, people’s love for these beans can be seen in the various delicacies prepared with them. In fact, their versatile flavors make them the soul of many cuisines. But beans are not only an important source of plant-based protein, they are also rich in soluble and insoluble fiber. The process of digesting the fiber and protein in legumes burns extra calories. Both types of fiber help reduce the level of insulin after digestion and reduce the body’s fat storage. Think of each bean as a small pill that promotes metabolism. A study found that people who eat ¾ cups of beans a day are 6.6 pounds lighter than those who do not eat beans, even though people who eat beans eat an average of 199 more calories a day.
Advice: As a small pill you can eat beans that are high in fiber and may help to increase your metabolism rate.
Eat breakfast every day
Research has shown that people who eat breakfast regularly tend to consume fewer calories throughout the day. Find breakfast options that are easy to prepare and suit your busy schedule. Good choices are high-fiber whole grains (3-5 grams per serving), oatmeal with low-fat milk, or semi-finished bagels with peanut butter.
Advice: Eating breakfast every day helps to consume fewer calories throughout the day which may increase your metabolic rate.
Take enough Vitamin D supplement
If there is one supplement that most Americans should be taking, it is vitamin D. It is important for maintaining muscle tissue, which speeds up metabolism, but researchers estimate that about 20% of Americans get enough from their diet. Although 3.5 grams of salmon can absorb 90% of the recommended daily value (400 IU), taking a daily supplement is very convenient.
Advice: You can eat eggs, fortified low-fat milk, and tuna to get enough vitamin D from your meal.
Perform high-intensity workouts
One of the ways that high-intensity exercise actually helps you burn calories after you finish your exercise. Several studies have shown that high-intensity training has an impressive ability to increase your metabolic rate within a few hours after exercise. High-intensity exercise can increase post-exercise metabolism more than jogging and weight training. In the same study, it was also found that high-intensity exercise can shift the body’s metabolism to use fat instead of carbohydrates for energy. Another study showed that it only takes two minutes of exercise. High-intensity exercise in the form of sprints can increase metabolism for 24 hours during a 30-minute run.
Advice: According to many studies high-intensity exercise really helps to improve metabolic rate. So don’t ignore this anymore!
Avoid alcohol
When you drink alcohol, your body must focus on processing this toxin and expelling it from the body. Like macronutrients, ethanol in alcohol also contains calories: 7 calories per gram. However, unlike carbohydrates or fats that can be put away as energy, alcohol isn’t put away in the body, yet just stays in the body until it tends to be disposed of. Without drinking, your body will not waste time on alcohol, but you can burn carbohydrates and then be surprised.
Advice: Not only at your metabolism system but also you will be benefited after giving up drinking alcohol.
Get a good night sleep
Insufficient sleep is associated with a significantly increased risk of obesity, which may be partly due to the negative impact of lack of sleep on metabolism. It has also been shown to increase the hunger hormone ghrelin and lower the satiety hormone leptin. This may explain why many people with insufficient sleep feel hungry and struggle to lose weight.
Advice: Remember to get a good night’s sleep if you want to increase your metabolism rate.
Related Article: How to get enough sleep at night: 13 proven tips for you!
What foods raise your metabolic rate?
It is true that certain foods can easily increase your metabolic rate. Adding these foods to your diet plan will make it easier to burn fat and prevent excessive weight gain, the foods are-
Foods that boost your metabolism (Video credit: TheSeriousfitness)
Protein rich foods like fish, meats, eggs, nuts and seeds.
Mineral rich foods
Chili peppers
Tea
Coffee
Beans and legumes
Ginger
Cacao
Apple cider vinegar
Seaweed
Water
What vitamins increase metabolic rate?
Certain vitamins and minerals can help to increase your metabolic rate efficiently. Dietary supplements can help, but whole foods are the best source of vitamins and minerals. The five most important vitamins and minerals for maintaining and stimulating body functions, including metabolism, and maintaining proper weight control:
Vitamin B
Vitamin D
Calcium
Iron
Magnesium
Does exercise increase metabolism?
For decades, researchers have tried to explain the effect of exercise on energy expenditure (calorie burn). Despite a growing body of research, the history of calorie burning and exercise remains unclear. There is some evidence that exercise can increase metabolism, but some find it confusing that regular activity slows it down.
What causes a high metabolic rate?
Fever is a common pathological cause of high BMR because an increase in body temperature increases the rate of cellular metabolic reactions. It is estimated that BMR increases by 7% for every rise in body temperature in Fahrenheit.
Resources
Bouchard C. The biological predisposition to obesity: beyond the thrifty genotype scenario. Int J Obes (Lond) 2007;31:1337–1339. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Schulz LO, Bennett PH, Ravussin E, Kidd JR, Kidd KK, Esparza J, et al. Effects of traditional and western environments on prevalence of type 2 diabetes in Pima Indians in Mexico and the US. Diabetes Care. 2006;29:1866–1871. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Flegal KM, Carroll MD, Ogden CL, Johnson CL. Prevalence and trends in obesity among US adults, 1999–2000. JAMA. 2002;288:1723–1727. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Troiano RP, Flegal KM. Overweight children and adolescents: description, epidemiology, and demographics. Pediatrics. 1998;101:497–504. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Must A, Spadano J, Coakley EH, Field AE, Colditz G, Dietz WH. The disease burden associated with overweight and obesity. JAMA. 1999;282:1523–1529. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Wolf AM, Colditz GA. Social and economic effects of body weight in the United States. Am J Clin Nutr. 1996;63:466S–469S. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Schutz Y, Flatt JP, Jequier E. Failure of dietary fat intake to promote fat oxidation: a factor favoring the development of obesity. Am J Clin Nutr. 1989;50:307–314. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Flatt JP, Ravussin E, Acheson KJ, Jequier E. Effects of dietary fat on postprandial substrate oxidation and on carbohydrate and fat balances. J Clin Invest. 1985;76:1019–1024. [PMC free article] [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Rising R, Alger S, Boyce V, Seagle H, Ferraro R, Fontvieille AM, et al. Food intake measured by an automated food-selection system: relationship to energy expenditure. Am J Clin Nutr. 1992;55:343–349. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Schutz Y, Tremblay A, Weinsier RL, Nelson KM. Role of fat oxidation in the long-term stabilization of body weight in obese women. Am J Clin Nutr. 1992;55:670–674. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Hellerstedt WL, Jeffery RW, Murray DM. The association between alcohol intake and adiposity in the general population. Am J Epidemiol. 1990;132:594–611. [PubMed] [Google Scholar]
Zhang C, McFarlane C, Lokireddy S, Masuda S, Ge X, Gluckman PD, et al. Inhibition of myostatin protects against diet-induced obesity by enhancing fatty acid oxidation and promoting a brown adipose phenotype in mice. Diabetologia. 2012;55:183–93. doi: 10.1007/s00125-011-2304-4. [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar]
Izumiya Y, Hopkins T, Morris C, Sato K, Zeng L, Viereck J, et al. Fast/Glycolytic muscle fiber growth reduces fat mass and improves metabolic parameters in obese mice. Cell Metab. 2008;7:159–72. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2007.11.003. [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar]
Izumiya Y, Bina HA, Ouchi N, Akasaki Y, Kharitonenkov A, Walsh K. FGF21 is an Akt-regulated myokine. FEBS Lett. 2008;582:3805–10. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2008.10.021. [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar]
Fiorenza CG, Chou SH, Mantzoros CS. Lipodystrophy: pathophysiology and advances in treatment. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2011;7:137–50. doi: 10.1038/nrendo.2010.199. [PMC free article] [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar]
Garg A. Acquired and inherited lipodystrophies. N Engl J Med. 2004;350:1220–34. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra025261. [PubMed] [CrossRef] [Google Scholar]
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3943438/
https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6893862/
https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/14692598/
Read More Amazing Articles
Best morning routine for success you should know right now!
Like this:
Like Loading...
Related Articles
Categories Medi Health Tags increase your metabolic rate Post navigation
What are the most common symptoms of multiple sclerosis?
Health benefits of quitting alcohol: 10 benefits of quiet alcohol
You must log in to post a comment.
Subscribe to our Newsletter
Email*
Follow Us
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Pinterest
YouTube
Categories
Categories Select Category Alternative Medicine (3) Anatomy (20) Anesthesiology (8) Biochemistry (4) Cardiology (24) Dental (3) Dental Hygiene (1) Dental Pediatrics (1) Dermatology (5) Diagnostic Imaging (3) Embryology (2) Endocrinology (3) Forensic Medicine (1) Gastroenterology (2) Hematology (1) Hepatology (1) Herbal (2) Kinesiology (3) Laboratory Medicine (1) Medi Book (272) Medi Food (6) Medi Health (32) Medi News (1) Medi Physio (2) Medi Review (4) Medical Diagnosis (3) Medical Dictionary (5) Medical Psychotherapy (1) Medical Technology (1) Medicine (25) Mental Health (1) Microbiology (6) Neonatology (3) Nephrology (6) Neurology (9) Neurosurgery (1) Nursing (23) Nutrition (1) Obstetrics and Gynecology (4) Occupational Therapy (1) Ophthalmology (3) Orthopedics (9) Osteopathy (1) Otorhinolaryngology (2) Parasitology (1) Pathology (6) Pediatric Perinatology (1) Pediatrics (14) Pharmacology (12) Pharmacy (1) Physiology (9) Physiotherapy (4) Psychiatry (9) Psychology (4) Radiology (20) Skin Care (3) Surgery (6) Toxicology (1) Uncategorized (1) Urology (2) Virology (1) Writing Skills Reference (1)
Revisiting patient expectations and experiences of antibiotics in an era of antimicrobial resistance. Qualitative study - Research Portal, King's College, London
Objective: To investigate contemporary patient expectations and experiences of antibiotic prescribing in England.
Background: Primary care providers' compliance with patient influences has been identified as a motivation for antibiotic prescribing behaviour. Since 2013, there have been concerted efforts to publicise and address the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance. A fresh qualitative insight into patient expectations and experiences is needed.
Setting and participants: Two English regions, one an urban metropolitan area and the other a town in rural England. Patients who recently consulted for infections were recruited. The information power approach was used to determine the number of participants, yielding a sample of 31 participants.
Main measures: Thematic analysis was carried out to analyse the interview data.
Results: Five themes were identified: beliefs, expectations, experiences of taking antibiotic, experience of antimicrobial resistance and side-effects, and experiences of consultations. The accounts reflected improved public knowledge: antibiotics were perceived to be much-needed medicines that should be prescribed when appropriate. The data showed that patients formed expectations of expectations, trying to read the prescribers' intentions and reflect on the dependency between what prescribers and patients wanted. Patient experiences featured as nuanced and detailed with knowledge of AMR and side effects of antibiotics in the context of positive consultation experiences.
Conclusions: The study highlighted complex interplays between adherence to antibiotics and consuming antibiotics in reflexive, informed ways. Ensuring that present and future patients are informed about potential benefits and harms of antibiotic use will contribute to future antimicrobial stewardship.
Natural Compounds in Cancer Therapy, Oregon Medical Press, 2001.
Review by the editor, Patty Feist.
This book is chock full of information on both the mechanisms of cancer and the use of natural compounds in treating it. It is a serious, scientific work, the result of much painstaking study and literature research.
The first part of the book covers cancer at the cellular level and at the level of the organism. These chapters on cancer cell basics were an educational experience for me. Boik writes about the cancer cell from a slightly different angle than that with which I am familiar, and by reading carefully through his approach, I found I learned more about the cancer cell than I knew before. He explains the concepts well. To check his facts, I pulled out a molecular biology text that I own and they correlated well.
Boik goes into so much detail in the first part of the book because he is very interested in how and why the natural compounds work. The second half of the book covers the different types of natural compounds, each in turn. He states that most of the evidence for the anti-cancer affect of natural compounds is from preclinical (test tube and animal) studies; very few human studies have been conducted. He summarizes and references these preclinical studies and discusses how the compounds inhibit cancer by interfering with one or more of cancer's mechanisms. He talks about synergism, estimating effective and safe doses, available formulations, and combination design. The following classes of compounds are discussed in detail: trace metals, antioxidants, polysaccharides, lipids, amino acids, flavonoids, nonflavonoid phenolic compounds, terpenes, and lipid-soluble vitamins.
A chapter which is potentially helpful to a lot of people on conventional treatment is Chapter 23: Natural Compounds, Chemotherapy, and Radiotherapy.
I must admit, I did not read every word of Natural Compounds in Cancer Therapy. This book is not light reading - instead, it is an excellent but technical reference text which (in my opinion) should be on the shelf of every serious practitioner or researcher of alternative therapies. It is a also great reference for cancer patients who are thinking of using an alternative or complementary treatment, or for people who do not have cancer and want to prevent it.
In my opinion, Natural Compounds in Cancer Therapy is a much-needed addition to the field of alternative cancer treatments. It is a big step in the right direction for serious practitioners of alternative therapies.
Note: My own background is in biochemistry (M.S. Biochemistry, CU Boulder, 1976) with a strong recent experience in organic chemistry (Coordinator for the teaching labs at CU Boulder, 1985-present).
Our evolving understanding of the problem with plaque - A to Z Health Guide
HomeGeneral TopicOur evolving understanding of the problem with plaque
About two decades ago, cardiologists began to realize that the classic view of heart disease as a simple plumbing problem was incomplete. The underlying mechanism is atherosclerosis — the accumulation of fatty plaque inside artery walls. But plaque doesn't just gradually build up and eventually close off an artery, causing a heart attack. Instead, most heart attacks happen when smaller, inflamed plaques rupture suddenly, triggering a blood clot that blocks blood flow (see "From healthy artery to heart attack").
In recent years, new imaging techniques have revealed a more nuanced view of the natural progression of atherosclerosis, as described in a review article in the Aug. 27, 2020, New England Journal of Medicine. Some plaques rupture but then heal, forming a focal, stable swelling inside the artery. Other plaques rupture but then fail to heal — they're the ones to worry about.
"Conventional imaging tests don't show where the most dangerous, inflamed plaques are located," says Harvard Medical School professor Dr. Peter Stone, a cardiologist at Brigham and Women's Hospital. These plaques are visible with optical coherence tomography (which uses near-infrared light) or intravascular ultrasound (which uses sound waves), either of which can create images of the inside of the coronary arteries. Some doctors use these specialized techniques when placing artery-opening stents. But the techniques can also help researchers understand where plaque forms and why it destabilizes and causes a heart attack.
From healthy artery to heart attackStage 1: Excess LDL passes through the artery. Cholesterol travels in the bloodstream in particles called lipoproteins. About two-thirds of blood cholesterol is in the form of low-density lipoprotein (LDL), or "bad" cholesterol. Excess LDL leaves the blood and lodges in the artery walls.Stage 2: Plaque builds up and the artery narrows. Any injury to the inner layer of cells lining the artery (caused by high blood pressure, smoking, or diabetes, for example) hastens the buildup of arterial deposits. White blood cells arrive on the scene and engulf LDL cholesterol. These cells then enlarge and transform into fat-laden foam cells.Stage 3: A fibrous cap tops the plaque. As foam cells die, they release soft, fatty gruel that provokes further inflammation. Smooth muscle cells in the artery wall form a cap over the interior buildup and add to the bulk of the plaque. The bigger the plaque, the more blood flow is restricted.Stage 4: The plaque ruptures. Large plaques tend to be covered by thick, fibrous caps that may resist breaking apart. Smaller plaques may be too small to block blood flow and usually do not show up during a cardiac stress test. However, they may have thin, underdeveloped caps that rupture easily. At least half of all heart attacks occur because of plaque rupture.Stage 5: A clot blocks the artery. Once a plaque ruptures, platelets congregate at the site, starting the clotting process. The result is a thrombus — a clot of red blood cells, platelets, and other material — that completes the blockage and prevents blood from reaching the heart. Deprived of blood and oxygen, a portion of the heart muscle dies.Illustrations by Scott Leighton
The ischemia hypothesis
For some 40 years, cardiologists have used stents or bypass surgery to treat large plaques that cause ischemia (inadequate blood flow to the heart muscle). "The thinking was, if you can identify the obstructive culprit plaque causing the ischemia, you should fix it," says Dr. Stone. This fix may relieve chest discomfort caused by the diminished blood flow, known as angina. But are there other, longer-term benefits, such as fewer heart attacks or a longer life?
Some earlier trials suggested the answer was no. However, those trials didn't include many people with more serious forms of ischemia. In theory, those people might benefit more from a procedure to treat a narrowed artery than people with milder ischemia.
Earlier this year, a major international trial called ISCHEMIA addressed this question head-on by enrolling people who had moderate to severe ischemia as documented by a stress test. These tests, which closely monitor your heart while under stress from exercise or a medication, can suggest the presence and severity of narrowed arteries.
About half of the 5,179 people in the study were randomized to receive only medication to lower blood pressure and cholesterol and prevent blood clots. The other half got the same drug therapy as well as angio-graphy, an imaging test that uses a special x-ray and dye to reveal blockages in the heart's arteries. Any serious artery blockages were treated with artery-opening stents or a coronary artery bypass operation.
After five years, there were no clear differences in the risk of heart attack, stroke, or death from any cause between the two groups. The study appeared April 9, 2020, in The New England Journal of Medicine.
Obstructive but stable?
In showing that treating these sizable blockages did nothing to ward off heart attack or stroke, the ISCHEMIA findings underscored the risks posed by the smaller lesions that aren't routinely identified or treated. "This study turned the whole ischemia hypothesis upside down," says Dr. Stone. The results suggests that obstructive plaque may be healed and stable. It may be unlikely to rupture and cause a heart attack, which is why fixing those areas doesn't appear to offer protection, he explains. "The really dangerous plaques may be either upstream or downstream from the obstructive plaque, or in one of the heart's other arteries, even in the absence of an obstruction," he says.
What does this mean for people with angina or who have had a stress test that suggests a potentially serious blockage? Be vigilant about lifestyle changes that lower your risk of atherosclerosis, such as exercising regularly and eating a mostly plant-based diet. Work closely with your doctor to optimize your medication regimen, which should include drugs to keep your cholesterol, blood pressure, and blood sugar levels in a healthy range, and possibly clot-preventing drugs. Invasive treatments (stents and bypass surgery) should be reserved for people who experience severe angina that can't be managed with medications, and for those having symptoms even while at rest or having a heart attack.
Pfizer recalls 1 million birth control packs after mixup; pills may lead to pregnancy | NOLA.com
Pfizer recalls 1 million birth control packs after mixup; pills may lead to pregnancy
on February 01, 2012 at 11:33 AM, updated February 01, 2012 at 12:37 PM
Pfizer Inc. is recalling 1 million packets of birth control pills due to a packaging error that could raise the risk of an accidental pregnancy by leaving women with an inadequate dose. The problem affects 14 lots of Lo/Ovral-28 tablets and 14 lots of generic Norgestrel and Ethinyl Estradiol tablets. Both products are manufactured by Pfizer and marketed in the U.S. by Akrimax Rx Products under the Akrimax Pharmaceuticals brand.
Pfizer found that some packets of the drugs had too many active tablets, while others had too few. Oral birth control products use a series of 21 hormone tablets and 7 inactive sugar tablets to regulate the menstrual period while providing contraception.
The risk of an accidental pregnancy depends on how many doses a patient misses in the pill cycle, pharmacist Mike Parker said. Patients normally can miss a dose and then catch up the next day, but the risk rises if a woman goes more than a couple of days without the right dose.
Parker said birth control pills account for about 25 percent of the prescriptions filled at his store, Fred's Neighborhood Pharmacy, in New Castle, Ind. But he doesn't expect many worried calls from customers about this recall.
He said it focuses on an older pill that used to be popular but doesn't sell as well anymore compared with newer versions that have fewer side effects.
"It's not a No. 1 or No. 2 seller," he said.
U.S. pharmacists filled 38.9 million birth control prescriptions in the first six months of last year, according to the most recent statistics from data firm IMS Health. A total of 78.6 million prescriptions were filled in 2010.
An IMS spokesman said the pills subject to the recall are not among the top 5 prescriptions filled.
A Pfizer spokeswoman said the problem was caused by both mechanical and visual inspection failures on the packaging line. She said the problem has been corrected.
Patients with the affected lot numbers should return them to the pharmacy.
The affected packets have expiration dates ranging between July 31, 2013, and March 31, 2014.
The drugs were distributed to warehouses, clinics and retail pharmacies throughout the U.S.
Online: Lot numbers of the affected pills are at http://www.fda.gov/Safety/Recalls/ucm289770.htm midday extra
Mohan Balachandran, MA, MS | Penn Medicine Center for Health Care Innovation
Mohan Balachandran serves as the chief operating officer for the Way to Health platform at the Penn Medicine Center for Health Care Innovation.
Mohan is a passionate problem solver, with close to 25 years of experience in all aspects of building, growing, and sustaining a business. An entrepreneur at heart, he has dedicated the last decade of his life to the technological challenges facing the health care industry. He most recently co-founded Datica (formerly Catalyze) to address the two biggest hurdles to innovation in health care − namely, cloud regulatory compliance, and data interoperability. Before founding Datica, he launched Share.md, a physician communication company, and mthSense, a Summer 2012 YCombinator mobile advertising company.
Before this entrepreneurial streak, Mohan was an early employee at Net.Orange (acquired by Nant Health), developing partnerships with a roster of high profile clients, such as US Oncology, Ascension Health, and Kaiser Permanente. Mohan began his U.S. career in the supply chain and master data management fields at i2 Technologies (acquired by JDA). During his tenure at i2, he successfully grew the company's client base to include several Fortune 100 companies, ultimately achieving the role of vice president of sales and marketing for the consumer products vertical.
Mohan leads the Way To Health team and is responsible for all aspects of the product, finance, and sales. He has a bachelor's degree from the Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay and two master's degrees from the University of Pennsylvania.
St. Louis Clinical Trials Participates in Bringing New Non-Opioid Pain Control Medicine to the Market
SLCT was one of the sites that participated in hernia repair studies, investigating a non-opioid postoperative pain medicine. The sponsor, Heron Therapeutics, has announced positive topline results from its completed Phase 3 studies of the investigational agent HTX-011 in subjects undergoing bunionectomy and hernia repair, which achieved all primary and key secondary endpoints in both Phase 3 trials, demonstrating statistically significant reductions in both pain intensity and the use of opioid rescue medications through 72 hours following surgery.
Join a Memory Study! I Want To Volunteer!
ABOUT ST. LOUIS CLINICAL TRIALS
St. Louis Clinical Trials is a free standing medical research facility located in west St. Louis that is easily accessible by most major highways. There is no charge for parking for those individuals who choose to drive. Study participants who are unable to drive are offered transportation free of charge. Studies at this location may sometimes require overnight stays. In order to make those stays comfortable we provide many amenities including video games, internet access, cable television, exercise area, game room, as well as a smoking area (for studies that permit smoking). We offer nutritious, well-balanced meals served by a local catering company.
St. Louis Clinical Trials is proven and trusted resource for the conduct of studies in Schizophrenia, Major Depressive Disorder, Bipolar Mania, Alzheimer's disease, Addiction and Pain Management.
A private, inpatient and outpatient research facility, St. Louis Clinical Trials is focused in Phase I-III clinical trials in a variety of CNS indications. The purpose built, 30-bed facility is fully equipped, secure, locked and supported by highly experienced MDs, DOs, Nurse Practitioners, Psychologist, Paramedics, Patient Care Technicians, CRCs, Registered Pharmacists (PharmD), Laboratory Technicians and Regulatory Specialists. The facility is built for the comfort of research subjects who have access to an exercise area, TV, video games, internet access, game room and other amenities.
The facility maintains a compounding pharmacy with an enclosed HEPA filter hood; a double-locked, limited access drug storage room with a 24-hour monitoring system; an IATA and CLIA certified processing laboratory; and -20 and -70 degree sample storage. ECGs are performed at the clinic and radiology facilities (x-ray, PET, CT,MRI, fMRI) are located nearby. The research clinic has dedicated monitor rooms with high-speed internet for remote data entry access, on-site long-term storage, a conference room, lobby waiting area and free parking. A central IRB is utilized for all regulatory submissions.
Daniel Gruener, MD, is board certified by the American Academy of Psychiatry and Neurology as well as by the America Academy of Pain Management. He has conducted more than 250 clinical trials in Pain, Addiction, Opioid Induced Constipation, Schizophrenia, Bipolar, Depression, Anxiety, Sleep Disorders, Alzheimer's Disease, Hepatitis B & C, Diabetes and Smoking Cessation. Dr. Gruener has been a thought leader in pain for more than 20 years and has served as a board member of the American Pain Society. Additionally, he has written several books, most significant, he co-authored a textbook on pain and is the senior editor for Pain Control in the Primary Care Setting, published by the APS, which was the standard of care for several years.
Nov 13, 2018, 07:29am EST |
At its annual R&D investor day, Novartis updated the world on its drug pipeline and research priorities. It was an impressive session befitting a company that spends $9 billion annually on R&D (about 18% of its top line revenues). Novartis touted a pipeline that includes more than 200 programs in clinical development encompassing over 500 ongoing clinical trials with 26 potential blockbusters in late stage development. Its pipeline is truly enviable and teems with potential new treatments in a variety of therapeutic areas including various types of cancer, heart disease, metabolic disorders and rare diseases.
Often at a session like this, a company will highlight specific programs that it believes sets it apart from the competition. Novartis certainly did that with a few of its drugs. But it paid special attention to one program: AVXS-101 a gene therapy to treat spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). SMA is a rare and inherited neurodegenerative disease. Babies that inherit the most fatal form of this disease don't live past the age of two.
AVXS-101 was developed by the biotech company, AveXis. It is a gene therapy that, after a single dose, corrects the genetic defect that causes SMA. Based on the positive clinical data generated by AveXis from a small clinical trial in children, Novartis acquired AveXis for $8.7 billion to boost its gene therapy portfolio.
Given the price paid for this AveXis as well as the commitment that Novartis is making to gene therapy research, it's no surprise that the AVXS-101 program was highlighted at its R&D day. Novartis focused on the drug's exciting life-saving potential, the powerful technology it developed to deliver not just this therapy but also others for CNS diseases, and the other therapies that can be generated by the AveXis technology platform.
But, despite this impressive array of breakthroughs, the slide that garnered the most attention from the AveXis part of the presentation was the one that dealt with price. The slide compared the value of AVXS-10 in curing a life-long rare disease with other rare disease drugs and showed that, based on quality-adjusted life years (QALY), a price of $4 million for this one time treatment would be justified.
In fairness, Novartis executives didn't say that this would indeed be the price of AVXS-101. It will wait until after the drug is approved by regulators before announcing this. But Novartis is clearly sending a signal to the world – especially payers – that we are heading into a new world of pricing not yet seen even for previously approved gene therapies.
This is not Novartis' first foray into pricing a new cure for a disease. Last year, Novartis launched Kymriah, the first gene therapy approved in the U.S. Kymriah, based on CAR-T technology, cures the deadly childhood disease, acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). Before the launch of Kymriah, many analysts predicted that Novartis would set the price of Kymriah anywhere between $600,000 - $750,000. Instead, Kymriah was priced at $475,000. Furthermore, if the drug doesn't work after the first month, patients pay nothing. The Kymriah price, which was attacked at the time, now seems relatively modest given the prices emerging for other gene therapies like Spark Therapeutics' Luxturna for a rare form of blindness.
It's pretty unusual for a company to discuss the price of a late-stage drug candidate at an analyst meeting intended to focus on R&D. Clearly, Novartis executives wanted to draw attention to the difficult issue of pricing new therapies that cure diseases as well as to begin to set expectations for AVXS-101. Perhaps the intent was to begin to engage a public debate as to the value of curing diseases. However unusual this is, effectively Novartis is turning the tables on payers who have in the past begun to question the value of breakthrough drugs in advance of pricing discussions. Are we now entering an era when the potential price of a drug will be debated publicly by the payers and drug makers before the therapy is even approved and the label is known? It certainly seems that way.
In all likelihood, Novartis intentionally used the $4 million value of AVXS-101 as a stalking horse. Should Novartis subsequently announce a price of $2.5 million, and also include a money back guarantee as was done with Kymriah, it might seem like a bargain. However, regardless of the value of curing a fatal childhood disease and despite proving the economic sense that a multi-million dollar price tag makes, new payment paradigms are going to be needed to pay for these treatments. Otherwise, the healthcare system will be seriously challenged financially.
Genetic Counseling » Cancer Centers of Southwest Oklahoma	Menu Home
Genetic Counseling Every day researchers are learning more about the genetics of cancer and how diseases run in families. If you have an inherited risk of disease in your family, a genetic counseling session can help you understand your personal risk or the risk for other family members. It can also help you learn what testing, surveillance, prevention strategies, or research trials may be right for your situation. At the Cancer Centers of Southwest Oklahoma, we are proud to have access to one of the world's leading geneticists, Dr. John Mulvihill, via our Tele-medicine program. Since earning an international reputation in the genetics of human cancer 30 years ago, Dr. Mulvihill has been chief of clinical genetics for the National Cancer Institute, founder of the human genetics department at the University of Pittsburgh and cofounder of the International Genetic Epidemiology Society. He has directed medical genetics with CMRI/Kimberly V. Talley professor of pediatrics for the OU Health Science Center since 1998. His research focus is on hereditary and familial factors and on reproduction by cancer survivors as routes to understanding human germ cell mutation,
To assess your risk for an inherited condition, a genetic counselor needs to know medical information about you and your family. The genetic counselor will often take a more detailed family medical history and use this information to generate a family tree, which shows all of your relatives, their relationship to you and diseases they had. This diagram helps the genetic counselor determine your risk for inherited diseases. If you do have an increased risk, the counselor will make sure that you understand the basic genetic concepts that affect how the disease runs in families, educate you about the disease itself, and explain the level of risk for you and your family.
A Family Tree for A Family With the Inherited Syndrome FAP
After an initial appointment, the genetic counselor may need more information in order to make a final risk assessment. For example, they may need to know results of a pathology report on a relative's tumor, or the exact age when a relative developed a disease. They may also need to review medical records for a relative to clarify a diagnosis.
Once the counselor has established your risk, he or she may discuss options — such as genetic tests if they are available — that may help clarify whether you or members of your family carry a genetic mutation that increases your risk for a particular disease. If there is an appropriate test, the counselor will discuss in detail what information it can give, the risks, benefits, limitations, and other possible consequences of being tested. They also provide detailed follow-up to be sure that you understand what the results mean. Even if genetic testing is not appropriate for your situation, the counselor will help you understand other options to reduce your risk (such as having ovaries removed in women at risk for ovarian cancer) or lifestyle changes that may help your situation. In many cases, the medical team will be involved in designing a plan of action for continued medical management. The genetic counseling session will usually last at least an hour if not longer. Although some people may only require one session, others will require several sessions if they are pursuing genetic testing or for additional follow-up
Dr. Kahl on the Potential of CAR T-Cell Therapy in MCL | METAVERSE
Brad Kahl, MD, professor in the Department of Medicine, Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Siteman Cancer Center, discusses the potential of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy in mantle cell lymphoma (MCL). There is a lot of … (본문 전체 8/3/2018 6:13 AM)
Dr. Cohen Discusses CAR T-Cell Therapy in MCL Jonathon B. Cohen, MD, assistant professor, Department of Hematology and Medical Oncology, Emory University School of Medicine, Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University, discusses the use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy in patients … (본문 전체 11/20/2018 6:12 AM)...
Goy Discusses Maintenance, CAR T-Cell Therapy in MCL Promising clinical trial data have highlighted advances in the treatment of mantle cell lymphoma (MCL), but an important next step is applying this progress to routine clinical practice, said Andre Goy, MD. These recent data have not only suggested that … (본문 전체 8/11/2018 1:29 AM)...
Dr. Goy on Need for Payment Model for CAR T-Cell Therapy Andre Goy, MD, MS, chairman and executive director of the John Theurer Cancer Center at Hackensack University Medical Center, discusses the affordability of cancer treatment breakthroughs such as chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. Although CAR … (본문 전체 11/16/2018 12:00 AM)...
Dr. Boccia on Managing Adverse Events With CAR T-Cell Therapy Ralph Boccia, MD, an oncologist at the Center for Cancer and Blood Disorders, associate clinical professor at Georgetown University, discusses managing adverse events (AEs) associated with chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy. CAR T-cell therapy … (본문 전체 11/16/2018 12:00 AM)...
Dr. Andreadis on Response to CAR T-Cell Therapy Charalambos (Babis) Andreadis, MD, MSCE, associate professor of clinical medicine, Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco (UCSF) Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, discusses response to chimeric antigen receptor (CAR … (본문 전체 10/16/2018 8:05 AM)...
Dr. Shah on the Current State of CAR T-Cell Therapy in Myeloma Nina Shah, MD, associate professor, Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco Helen Diller Comprehensive Cancer Center, discusses the current state of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy in multiple myeloma. Right now, most … (본문 전체 10/9/2018 6:44 AM)...
Dr. Deol on the Safety of CAR T-Cell Therapy Abhinav Deol, MD, associate professor with Karmanos Cancer Institute, discusses patient eligibility for chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell therapy in hematologic oncology. Once a clinician determines a patient's eligibility to receive CAR T-cell … (본문 전체 9/28/2018 5:37 AM)...
Evaluating venetoclax monotherapy for relapsed or refractory mantle cell lymphoma Venetoclax is a targeted therapy. This type of treatment blocks cancer cell survival without affecting healthy cells. This leads to cancer cell death. Whether monotherapy with venetoclax is effective in patients with relapsed or refractory MCL remains … (본문 전체 9/27/2018 5:39 PM)...
Chimeric Antigen Receptor (CAR) T-cell Therapy Market to See 44.1% Annual Growth WELLESLEY, Mass., Aug. 14, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) — Exciting developments in the world of immunotherapy are helping to drive incredible growth of the chimeric antigen receptor cell therapy market, according to a report by BCC Research. The industry is … (본문 전체 8/14/2018 8:14 PM)...
Dr. Lonial on CAR T-Cell Therapy in Myeloma Sagar Lonial, MD, professor and chair, Department of Hematology & Medical Oncology, Emory University School of Medicine, chief medical officer, Winship Cancer Institute of Emory University, discusses the use of chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) T-cell … (본문 전체 8/18/2018 4:42 AM)...
