Cardiovascular risk assessments at occupational health services: employee experiences
Author's post-print (816.8Kb)
Di Battista, E.M.
Bracken, R.M.
Williams, S.P.
Background: Across England in the UK, population screening for cardiovascular disease (CVD) primarily takes place within general practice in the form of the National Health Service Health Check. Additional screening sites such as occupational health are advocated to improve the population impact. Aims: To investigate participant experiences with cardiovascular and type 2 diabetes risk assessment (RA) at occupational health and subsequent support-seeking at general practice. Methods: Face-to-face interviews were conducted for this qualitative study. Participants were recruited at three workplaces; a steel works and two hospital sites. Using interpretive phenomenological analyses, themes were drawn from salient narratives and categorically organized. Results: There were 29 participants. Themes (n = 16) were organized into two domains; factors that facilitated (n = 9) or thwarted (n = 7) participant engagement with the RA and general practice. All participants described the RA as worthwhile and strongly valued RA at occupational health. Those with obesity and high CVD risk highlighted their difficulties in making lifestyle changes. Participants reported confusion and anxiety when GP advice about medication appeared to contradict what participants had interpreted during RA at occupational health. Conclusions: This study highlights factors that facilitate or thwart engagement in cardiovascular RA at occupational health services and general practice follow-up. Stakeholders can integrate these factors into standard operating procedures to enhance participant engagement and enable safeguards that minimize potential harm to participants.
Di Battista, E.M., Bracken, R.M., Stephens, J.W., Rice, S., Williams, S.P., Thomas, M. and Mellalieu, S.D. (2019) 'Cardiovascular risk assessments at occupational health services: employee experiences', Occupational Medicine, 69(2), pp.106-112. DOI: 10.1093/occmed/kqy156.
http://hdl.handle.net/10369/10573
https://doi.org/10.1093/occmed/kqy156
Article published in Occupational Medicine on 26 November 2018 (online), available at: https://doi.org/10.1093/occmed/kqy156.
Sport Research Groups [1047]
A CROSS SECTIONAL STUDY EXPLORING THE PERCEPTIONS OF SMALL AND MEDIUM SIZED ENTERPRISES REGARDING THEIR LEGAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AWARNESS 
O'Sullivan, Abbie (2018-05)
Aim: This study explores small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) perception relating to their awareness of their legal health and safety duties, whilst documenting attendance rates of a health and safety intervention ...
Supporting the mature Occupational Therapy student: an investigation into the support systems available for non-traditional Occupational Therapy students in Wales 
Cogger, Nina Jane (University of Wales lnstitute Cardiff, 2007)
This study is a critical evaluation of the support systems available for nontraditional (mature) occupational therapy students on the part time and full time educational programmes in Wales. Mature students normally have ...
Structured community activity for forensic mental health – a feasibility study 
Roberts, Catherine; Davies, Jason; Maggs, Richard (Emerald, 2015-08-10)
Purpose: The restrictive nature of low secure mental health settings and the issues associated with risk management and safe practice raise numerous challenges which need to be overcome for individuals to engage in ...
Archives Select Month December 2022 November 2022 October 2022 September 2022 August 2022 July 2022 June 2022 May 2022 April 2022 March 2022 February 2022 January 2022 December 2021 November 2021 October 2021 September 2021 August 2021 July 2021 June 2021
Tag
beauty Benefits Care Covid Covid19 Day Diet Diet Plans doctors exercise Experts Fitness Health Health & Fitness Health & Style healthcare Health Care Healthy Healthy Tips Heart Home life Market Medical Medicine mental News patients Products risk routine Self Improvement selfimprovement Shares Skin skincare Skin Care Study supplement Supplements System Systems Vitamin Weight yoga
Partner links
Partner links
Travel
You may Missed
Health System
Telehealth department dissolving, Marshfield Clinic Health System facing financial difficulties
December 5, 2022
nikholas
Health System
Nursing strike would weaken Minnesota hospitals financially
December 4, 2022
nikholas
Health System
As respiratory viruses strain US health care systems, Biden administration tells states how it’s ready to help
December 3, 2022
nikholas
Health System
Economists say a Sanford-Fairview merger could raise health care costs in Minnesota
December 2, 2022
nikholas
Copyright © 2022 Vignaioli Artigiani Naturali
Theme by: Theme Horse
Proudly Powered by: WordPress
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies.
Cookie settingsACCEPT
Privacy & Cookies Policy
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. This category only includes cookies that ensures basic functionalities and security features of the website. These cookies do not store any personal information.
Non-necessary
Non-necessary
Any cookies that may not be particularly necessary for the website to function and is used specifically to collect user personal data via analytics, ads, other embedded contents are termed as non-necessary cookies. It is mandatory to procure user consent prior to running these cookies on your website.
Physicians in Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center four-year diagnostic radiology residency program become skilled practitioners in the latest imaging techniques, preparing them to enter private practice or to secure post residency fellowships.
Program Director, Dr. Lyle R. Gesner
The Diagnostic Radiology program at Cooperman Barnabas has been training excellent radiologists for nearly 30 years. The department has two main divisions; Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center (CBMC) and the Barnabas Health Ambulatory Care Center (BHACC). The BHACC was established as an imaging center, same day surgery facility, and a site for subspecialty offices in 1998.
The BHACC has been filmless using PACS since its opening and is entirely digital. Our program utilizes a state-of-the-art McKesson PACS system with teaching modules for day to day readings.
Associate Program Director, Dr. Barry D. Julius
Nearly 250,000 exams are performed yearly in all areas of Radiology. The Department is in the final stages of PACS deployment. Equipment is state-of-the-art including 5 MRI (including 3 Philips 1.5T units, a 3.0T unit, and a 1.0T open bore magnet), 6 CT (including 3 multi detector spiral CT,1-256 slice, 1-128 slice, 2-64 slice, 1-32 slice, 1-16 slice CTs), 9 US units, 9 gamma cameras (including 8 multi-head SPECT capable units, 1 Cardiac) and a new Siemens IR room. The emergency room is equipped with two direct digital x-ray units. All portable x-rays are now obtained digitally and interpreted on PACS.
The Breast Center, located in the Barnabas Health Ambulatory Care Center, performs more than 150 mammograms per day including the newest 3D tomography technology. A full range of breast intervention is performed daily including stereotactic biopsy and localization, Ultrasound guided aspiration/biopsy and MRI guided needle localization. MRI guided core biopsy is also performed in the Breast Center.
The Faculty is comprised of 20 full-time and 5 part-time Radiologists who trained at institutions such as Columbia, Massachusetts General Hospital, Yale, University of Pennsylvania and Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center. Fellowship trained faculty are available in Neuroradiology, Interventional Radiology, Nuclear Medicine, Mammography, Pediatric Radiology, Musculoskeletal Radiology, Ultrasonography, Gastrointestinal Radiology and Body imaging.
Cooperman Barnabas Medical Center’s 15th Annual Clinical Research Day
Learn More
Residency and fellowship programs training at RWJBarnabas Health benefit from the resources and interprofessional opportunities available through the Rutgers Health institutional sponsorship. Learn more about all of the Rutgers Health sponsored graduate medical education programs on our sponsoring institution webpage.
Find out more about Dr Colin Parsloe The Body Doctor Range For Easing Aches and Pains In The Body
I am known as the Dry Eye Doctor by peers and patients. It is my passion and profession. As a practicing Ophthalmologist I am privileged to deal face-to-face with patients suffering from Dry Eye Disease. Their greatest problem is feeling overwhelmed by the diagnosis and associated information overload.
There is also conflicting information from colleagues still using old-fashioned baby shampoo, hot flannels and hypermellose and those who are more up-to-date. Treatment is still rather primitive and the patient advice sheets in practices are still old-fashioned. Even advice from leading ophthalmic institutions requires updating.
I am active in 5 different spheres:
I set up the first NHS based Dry Eye Disease Clinic.
I have developed pragmatic diagnostic and treatment algorithms based on my experience and being involved in the cutting edge of research into dry eye disease, particularly through being a contributing author in the current Dry Eye Workshop II (DEWS II) report.
I mentoring and train nurses and Ophthalmologists to diagnose and manage dry eye disease
Optometrists & Ophthalmologists I have been training for many years now. I have taught on Meibomian Gland Dysfunction and Dry Eye Disease at a number of the leading UK based international optometry conferences as well as at a number of the Local Optometry Council meetings.
Patients: I have patient information leaflets that convey the key information to educate patients. This includes up-to-date information on the long-term management of Dry Eye Disease and where to get more information.
I have close links with the leading, and some of the up-and-coming UK pharmaceutical companies. I was identified as a thought leader in Dry Eye Disease. I am the medical advisor to The Body Doctor.
I am the cofounder of Novus, a new centre of research focusing on ocular surface disease conditions. Our aim is to perform pragmatic research on common ocular conditions to inform patients and colleagues to make the best choices.
5. Support Group:
I am a person suffering the Dry Eye Disease. I have the passion and the ability to understand the detailed basic science breakthrough's in the research into Dry Eye Disease.
Roohi Ismail-Khan, MD; Marilyn M. Bui, MD, PhD
Cancer Control. 2010;17(3):173-176.
Pathologic and Molecular Features
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in the United States, the second most common cause of cancer death, and the main cause of death in women ages 45 to 55 years. In 2009, approximately 192,370 American women were diagnosed with breast cancer, and an estimated 40,170 women died of the disease.[1] Triple-negative breast cancer (TNBC) accounts for approximately 15% of breast cancers.[2] Although recently in the limelight and frequently discussed, TNBC is not a new type of breast cancer. In fact, the term has recently been coined to describe a subtype of breast cancer that lacks expression of the estrogen receptor (ER) and progesterone receptor (PR) and does not overexpress human epidermal growth factor 2 receptor (HER2) protein. TNBC is an important area of research for both researchers and clinicians alike because (1) TNBC is a poor prognostic factor for disease-free and overall survival, (2) no effective specific targeted therapy is readily available for TNBC, (3) there is a clustering of TNBC cases in premenopausal women and in women of African descent, and (4) the overlap of BRCA1-associated breast cancers with the TNBC phenotype is significant.
Cancer Control. 2010;17(3):173-176. © 2010 H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center and Research Institute, Inc.
Cite this: A Review of Triple-negative Breast Cancer - Medscape - Jul 01, 2010.
Roohi Ismail-Khan, MD, and Marilyn M. Bui, MD, PhD
Comprehensive Breast and Experimental Therapeutics Programs (RI-K, MMB), and the Departments of Women's Oncology (RI-K, MMB), Sarcoma (MMB), and Anatomic Pathology (MMB) at the H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center & Research Institute, Tampa, Florida.
Roohi Ismail-Khan, MD, Comprehensive Breast Program, Moffitt Cancer Center, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612. E-mail: Roohi.Ismail-Khan@moffitt.org
Cardioversion is a procedure designed to restore normal heart rhythm. Elective non-emergent cardioversion is performed by your physician and nursing staff. Heart irregularities, such as atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter, may be converted to a normal heart rhythm (normal sinus rhythm).
After The Procedure, some short term drowsiness may occur and you may notice some redness on your chest. The nursing staff monitors your vital signs until you are fully awake. Depending upon your overall condition you may go home later the same day.
Before The Procedure
You will be asked to sign a consent form after your doctor has explained the procedure and the risks to you.
Please do not eat or drink after midnight before the procedure.
Staff will enter your room with an equipment cart and monitor.
You will be connected to the monitor with pads placed on your chest and back.
An intravenous catheter (IV catheter) will be placed in your hand or arm. The medicine given during the procedure will be given through this catheter.
During The Procedure:
Oxygen will be given to you by face mask.
After connecting you to a heart monitor, some medication will be given through your IV catheter.
You may feel some burning in your arm and may briefly fall asleep. You may not remember the procedure.
An electrical impulse is administered through the two pads placed on your chest and back. This impulse may restore your heart to a normal sinus rhythm.
The system of medicine based on the theory that "like cures like" is known as Homeopathy.
Diagnosis of the patients' illness may involve looking at all aspects of the patients health, social and psychological state, as Homeopathy is classed as one of the Holistic and Complementary therapies.
Homeopathy forms a very important part of the Complementary therapies offered today, with some hospitals and GP's offering Homeopathic treatment on the N.H.S, having studied this form of therapy after their formal medical training.
The remedies are given in very small quantities, but the potency is capable of producing symptoms of the disease, which then stimulates the body into producing its own natural healing process.
These remedies are based on animal, plant or mineral substances and are given as pills, solutions, creams and granules.
It is always advisable to seek a competently trained therapist, and a list is available if you send a S.A.E to The Society of Homeopaths, 2,Artizan road Northampton, NN1 4HU Tel:01604 21400
Got Acne? Using Natural Products to Clean and Moisturize Your Skin
There are a lot of people that have very sensitive skin and this makes it hard for them to find the right product that they can use that will help meet their needs. There are though, some things that a person can use or that they can make themselves in order to take care of their skin in a natural fashion. If you decide to go out and buy products that claim to be all natural you really need to read the ingredients to make sure there aren't any other chemicals in the product that would harm your skin. A lot of the chemicals that do get into so called natural products and put in to keep their shelf life longer and still these could be harmful to sensitive skin.
If you want to be able to give your skin a deep cleaning, something deeper than soap then you are going to need to use a natural toner. If you want to make sure that it's truly natural, you should make it yourself. You can do this by using items like witch hazel, cucumber juice, crushed alum, some rose water, boiled mint water, orange blossom water, apple cider vinegar, some lemon juice as well as grated potato. You can mix together any of these items to make a good natural skin toner.
There are a lot of products out there that claim to be natural cleansers for your skin but then again they could contain chemicals that are there to help preserve their shelf lives, so again you might want to consider making your own. There are a lot of different things that you might already have on hand that you can use for a natural skin cleanser. Some of those items are milk, yogurt, honey, papaya, coffee, apple cider vinegar, cucumbers, eggs and lemon juice.
Milk or yogurt combined with honey make a great cleanser and the honey adds some antibacterial properties as well. You can make your own cleanser by mixing any of the items together in any combination that you want. If you add coffee to one of your mixtures it is going to serve as an exfoliate and will remove dead skin cells and the caffeine will actually increase the blood flow to the skin. You can also use an egg as a mask and it will remove all the gunk from your pores as it dries on your skin.
If you want to go all natural when it comes to moisturizing your skin there are a few things that you can do and that would be by using jojoba oil, olive oil, vitamin E, use sesame oil, avocado oil, honey, beeswax, cocoa butter, coconut oil as well as macadamia extract. You can buy most of these things at any health foods store and then take any combination of them and mix them together to create your own personal moisturizer.
http://www.free-acne-info.com/BlogRetrieve.aspx?BlogID=5666&PostID=120685&A=Trackback
papule whiteheads adult acne massaging inadequate diet sleeping skin acne bumps oily fish clogged b vitamins acne resources acne breakouts glycerin wash face raw vegetables treat cystic acne old skin dry skin psoriasis treatment tanning bed abdominal breathing cleanse skincare oatmeal scrubbing acne treatment bacterial overgrowth processed foods pizza bacteria white heads self-conscious body chemistry poor hygiene cystic acne effective acne medication Neem oily chemical peel fungal infection toxic internal medication oil acne medication foot file french fries feet homeopathy excess fat shower apply poultice cosmetics blemish prescription medication daily grime skin acne problems PH balance newborns personality electric razor apple cider vinegar skin pore acne concealers cleansing milk sunburned skin social interaction skin infections skin care exhaling acupuncture, get rid of acne moisture non-inflammatory acne lip acne sun acne skin cleansing anger adult years cucumber face pimples natural diet stress skin lotion get rid of acne Ayurvedic sunscreen acne afflicts lotion puberty skin problems hate acne acne problems alternative medicine nutrients milk of magnesia hamburgers natural beauty vitamin A dead skin bad acne tight collars pimple whitehead sufficient vitamins moisturizer skin eruptions pores dairy ointment makeup facial mask feel good confidence oxygen loofahs plain yogurt genetic acne Benzoyl peroxide natural acne cure acne scars ointments doctor skin health heat therapy digestive support easy skin care sunburn care remove blackheads fresh herbs mouth pimples acne tips good skin was cloth jealousy greasy foods poultry sunburn pain fatty foods medical condition neck advanced acne treatment steam simple protein acne flare heat therapy for acne wrinkled skin nodules blocked pores sensitivity almonds rejection cream acne help acne facial clogged pores social life blood major acne lesion acid ailment big myths aloe vera embarrassing body acne skin toner depression hormonal regulation beauty product behaviour exercising acne issues full blown acne embarassed facial scars breathing swimming teenage boy face wash beans different stages of acne blemishes Back Acne, Acne treatment apply makeup western diet dermatologist silvery skin UV rays relaxation menstrual cycle laser peel honey mask washing face resurfacing alkaline fast food make acne health fried food sensitive skin dead skin cells smokers orange peel good diet teenage skin skin disorder dirty clothes lesions upper chest acne cream practicing yoga skin care plan skin yellow rock root low fat acnegenic exfoliating acne myths papules embarrassing acne soap squeezing pimples winter back acne body acne premature water oysters comedone cleanser spinach skin products milk excessive sweating breakout skin blemishes birth control pills oils blackhead acne skin production of oils skin allergies hormone balancing diets overnight acne treatment red meat exfoliation face-wash good food dirt causes of acne home remedies nose oil buildup corticosteroids face body wash adult acne effected acne prone skin effective acne acne vulgaris getting rid of acne hair oil. clean skin fruits oil glands lemon juice skin cleanser steaming natural products washing acne outbreak light pulsing therapy skin type squeeze pimple sweat spots drugs acne development creams hygiene teenage acne sun protection lines chest caffeine cause acne flaky skin irritated skin natural skin vitamins and minerals yoga sun dermabrasion aluminum acetate naturopath oil free drink water pillow body oil bleeding teen girl skin condition perfect skin natural world sebaceous glands basic vitamins essential oils sun damaged skin skin irritation pustules redness softdrinks hands fibre healthy skin acne blend acne treatments right makeup skin moisturizer natural glow skin acne scar tissue vitamin e toxins acne breakout emotions cleansing medical intervention face acne natural skin cleanser right acne medication pimples blackheads cleansing wipes green tea skin care tips parties exercise facial massage shoulder hormones skin bacteria teenage girl beauty tips exfoliate skin blemish homemade acne facials clean skin antibiotics fats and oil ecne prevention acne pop pimples self esteem deep breathing internal organs good water anxiety carrots hormonal change nutrition wash hands embarrassing body healthy diet natural acne treatment skin care routine wrinkles application plan high sugar diet acne prevention beauty honey damaged skin cysts emotional state tea tree oil inhaling acne prone skin psoriasis insecurity aggravate acne oily skin chinese people teens social body dissatisfaction salicylic acid self-worth topical treatment acne surgery clean your skin skin cells mild scars back pregnancy menstrual period anesthetic inflammation glands overexposure skin problem acne effected sponge astringent skin toner medical treatment comedogenic healthy lifestyle dry skin zinc chocolate greasy bath food sensitivity
Stress-relieving ability is also one of the benefits of jasmine tea for health. The research found out that jasmine tea is beneficial in relieving stress and anxiety [6]. If inhaled, the pleasant scent of the jasmine tea may aid calm your nerves, improve your mood, and decrease heart rate. The first thing you should do before you take a sip of jasmine tea is to smell its scent. Thanks to those medicinal properties and soothing effects of jasmine tea, it has been widely applied in aromatherapy.
There is no effective and complete treatment for cancer. Therefore, scientists and doctors always suggest that we should keep a healthy diet and build a good lifestyle to avoid this dangerous disease. You should eat various vegetables and fruits, exercise regularly, and sleep 8 hours per day. Moreover, jasmine tea should be consumed daily for overall health. Scientists and researchers have found a close relationship between jasmine tea consumption and a decrease in the risk of getting cancer. Antioxidants in jasmine may prevent free radical damage that likely leads to cancer[5].
Hypersomnia Research-Where We Are and Where We Are Headed - Hypersomnia Foundation
During the presentation by David Rye, MD, PhD, titled "What are the latest developments in research on idiopathic hypersomnia?" at the Beyond Sleepy in the Mile-High City Hypersomnia Conference, he pointed out that, while on the one hand without a known biological biomarker there is a large unmet clinical need for people with idiopathic hypersomnia, on the other hand a growing awareness garnering increasing interest and recognition within the medical community is gaining momentum.
Following is an abbreviated summary of his talk prepared by a volunteer medical writer. As Dr. Rye had mentioned, this is not an all-inclusive list but specific highlights of recent development in research, collaboration, and treatments of idiopathic hypersomnia:
In the fall of 2016, the Emory University sleep research team and collaborators anticipate applying for a newly announced FDA orphan products natural history grant that has the possibility to yield $400,000/yr of additional financial support for up to 5 years.
Nearly half of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) patients meet MSLT criteria for IH. Data not yet published. Population based control MSLTs (n=1019) summarized courtesy of E. Mignot vs. CFS (n=46) from Wichita, KS (Reeves WC, et al BMC Neurol (2006); 6:41).
Studies of non-sleepy controls indicate that nearly ¼ (22%) are asleep by 8 minutes, which demonstrates that MSLT based criteria of ≤ 8 minutes put forward by the International Classification of Sleep Disorders (ICSD) is poor at discriminating IH from controls (i.e., it is a "poor" test in lacking specificity).
71% of IH with long sleep have MSLT > 8 min (i.e. considered to be normal), showing that MSLT based criteria also have poor sensitivity for rendering a diagnosis of IH (C Vernet and I Arnulf, Sleep (2009)).
A "cluster analysis" (i.e., unbiased probing for the degree of commonality of symptoms) by Sonka, Susta and Billiard suggests that IH and Narcolepsy Type 2 (NT-2) share more similarities than differences. (Narcolepsy with and without cataplexy, idiopathic Hypersomnia with and without long sleep time: a cluster analysis. Sleep Medicine 16(2):225-31).
Dr. David Plante (U. Wisconsin) is continuing his work looking at hypersomnia in affective disorders (e.g., depression and bipolar disease). Sleep propensity in psychiatric hypersomnolence: a systematic review and meta-analysis of MSLT findings. Sleep Medicine Reviews – in press (2016).
Dr. Plante has a five-year K23 training grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH). Research
Aim #1: to probe for deficits in slow wave electroencephalogram (EEG) activity in depression with hypersomnolence as standard sleep variables demonstrate increased sleep duration with normal efficiency in major depressive disorder (MDD) with comorbid hypersomnolence.
Aim #2: increased EEG slowing during wakefulness. Global reductions in pre/post sleep waking theta frequency band in MDD without hypersomnolence (relative to controls and hypersomnolent group).
Aim #3: Investigate slow wave induction as a treatment strategy. Subject recruitment is planned for Fall 2016.
Dr. Plante has also been successful in getting a strategic research award from the American Sleep Medicine Foundation (ASMF) to test the usefulness of a multidimensional assessment in improving the evaluation and treatment of hypersomnolence. Questions he'll be looking at with this research award:
Do novel objective hypersomnolence measures incorporated into routine MSLT workflows capture aspects of hypersomnolence not quantified by current standards?
Is the Hypersomnia Severity Index a valid subjective measure in patients referred for evaluation of suspected CNS disorders of hypersomnolence? This is a new index he's developed.
Do novel objective measures of sleepiness and the Hypersomnia Severity Index faithfully capture improvement with treatment?
Dr. Lynn Marie Trotti (Emory University) also has been awarded a K23 training grant from the NIH relevant to IH and hypersomnia.
Aim 1: Define functional neuroimaging signatures of pathological sleepiness of different etiologies (IH vs. Narcolepsy Type 1 during WAKE). She anticipates unique signatures by disease state diagnosis in FDG-PET regional hypo- metabolism. She hypothesizes that in the resting state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) will reveal increased connectivity within what has been termed the brain's "default mode network" (DMN) whereas portions of this brain circuit will deactivate when subjects perform a simple cognitive task (N-back). Diffusion Tensor Imaging (DTI) – decreased fractional anisotropy will also be explored. Aim 2: Brain circuits underlying the symptoms of sleep drunkenness in IH will be explored with similar imaging modalities.
Dr. Andy Jenkins' (Emory University Depts. of Anesthesia and Pharmacology) research continues to move forward. Midazolam and other drugs in the benzodiazepine class exert their sedative actions via gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) by binding between the alpha and gamma subunits of the GABA-A receptor. Dr Jenkins and his team are attempting to decipher precisely the presumptive somnogen that contributes to hypersomnia in many IH and NT2 patients that is acting on the GABA-A receptor. They are methodically exploring the % change in small, GABA-mediated current results after making single amino acid substitutions on the alpha2 subunit of the GABA-A receptor. So far they have successfully identified how small changes dramatically influence how well GABA does its job.
Is somnogen bioactivity specific to IH or might it be a biomarker for other origins of hypersomnia/hypersomnolence? The large NIH R01 grant awarded to Emory University and Dr. Rye supports studying this by comparing IH & NT2 and their spinal fluids with clinical features and spinal fluids collected from sleepy and non-sleepy sleep apnea patients, and non-sleepy controls. They are also anticipating assessing Kleine-Levin-Syndrome (KLS) patients both when in and out of their episodes of hypersomnia.
In order to help discover/define the biological pathways in which the somnogen calls "home" as well as, ultimately, the very nature/structure/chemical identity of the somnogen itself, the Emory University sleep research team is collaborating with:
Dr. Nicholas Seyfried – Assistant Professor in the Emory Dept. of Biochemistry is the lead investigator applying proteomic methods to spinal fluid samples.
Dr. Art Edison – A University of Georgia (U) Georgia Research Alliance scholar is the lead investigator applying metabolomics methods to spinal fluid samples.
Dr. Mark Bouzyk – Founder and Chief Scientific Officer of AKESOgen – is studying genetics
Dr. Gary Bassell – Chairman of Emory's Dept. of Cell Biology – is especially interested in studying myotonic dystrophy patients (in whom hypersomnia is a prominent symptom). RNA splicing abnormalities in myotonic dystrophy cause problems with proteins derived from RNA. The GABA 2γ receptor subunit in myotonic dystrophy because of this altered splicing yields a receptor more sensitive to the effects of the sedating benzodiazepine midazolam (see above).
Genetics/Molecular Biology– Daly DD and Yoss RE A family with narcolepsy (Mayo Clinic Proceedings (1959) 34:313-319). Dr Rye spoke about this during this conference as well as at the 2015 Hypersomnia Foundation Conference. Four generations of this family were identified. Narcolepsy Type 1 is now known not to be as heritable as the sleepiness described in this family. Only 3 of 13 (16) of these family members exhibited cataplexy. So hypersomnia/hypersomnolence, not Narcolepsy Type 1, appears to be what's being inherited in this family. Dr Rye also showed several smaller family trees collected at Emory, in which IH, Narcolepsy Type 2, and long sleepers cluster together in families.
Toward genetic research Dr. Rye/Emory has collected $187,500 in donation commitments to begin studies of the genetic components underlying IH and related disorders. The overall goal is to raise $250,000 to fund these preliminary studies, and using this data to position themselves to apply for larger streams of NIH or foundation funding. They are in the process of collating samples and deciding how to best assign diagnoses given the diagnostic challenges alluded to above (e.g, IH vs. Narcolepsy Type 2 vs. long sleepers). The team is also discussing internally and with external collaborators what best first strategies to employ (Genome Wide Association Studies (GWAS) vs. whole exome sequencing [which would be feasible and possibly more fruitful with larger families inclusive of affected and unaffected individuals]).
Most comparable GWAS studies require ~ 1000 samples. The Emory sleep program has 825 plasma samples, 783+ DNA samples, 473 CSF samples. Including DNA samples collected since November 2015 waiting cataloging into their larger biorepository.
Also, 11 patients with repeat CSF samples have been collected under different clinical conditions, which should be very useful for determining what features are unique to wellness vs. hypersomnia by way of proteomic and metabolomics comparisons.
Very recently skin biopsies h=are being collected to derive fibroblasts from which they are then able to morph into immature brain cells to study more intensively, and in a repeated manner.
Clinical Trials & Treatments: Pentylenetetrazol (PTZ; aka BTD-001). This is an anti-GABA-A receptor study drug with mechanism action similar to that of clarithromycin. It is being further developed/studied by Balance Therapeutics for the treatment of cognition and memory deficits in Down's Syndrome as well as hypersomnia/hypersomnolence in IH and Narcolepsy Type 2. Interestingly, PTZ is still available as one ingredient (viz., cardiazol) of a cough syrup available in Italy. This is the ongoing clinical trial with the acronym of ARISE. Www.arisestudies.com is the first industry sponsored clinical trial of any treatment seeking FDA approval for treatment of IH. This trial is testing the efficacy of Pentylenetetrazol (PTZ) in a rigorous, controlled, crossover, and blinded design. ARISE is actively enrolling patients at > 20 centers including Emory University (see the website for participating centers). This drug has a long and substantial safety record (i.e,. Phase 1 requirement of safety in humans has already been established). A small, unblinded Phase IIa study – 5 subjects (3 IH and 2 Narcolepsy Type 2) each with hypersomnia responsive to clarithromycin and/or flumazenil demonstrated very promising results. So much so that the much larger Phase IIb study is moving forward necessitating recruitment of 120 subjects (60 each with IH and Narcolepsy Type 2).
Emory's open label experience with flumazenil continues to be promising and publication of their "open-label" experience in an initial 153 treated patients is forthcoming. The paper was accepted June 27, 2016 publication in the Journal of Clinical Sleep Medicine. Beyond this experience which is limited to those patients seen and treated by Drs. Rye or Trotti prior to January 1, 2015, it is estimated that nearly 300 patients with hypersomnia resistant to traditional treatments with wake promoting drugs have been empirically treated with flumazenil through Emory's outpatient sleep clinic alone. Many additional physicians outside of Emory are increasingly prescribing flumazenil to their patients.
Much has transpired since the 1950's when Dr. Bedrich Roth coined the term "idiopathic hypersomnia" and progress will continue as we work together and tease out understanding of the causes of idiopathic hypersomnia.
