Take care and all the best. As the medical science revolutionized over the years, only when I began yelling again the nurse grabbed my head and shoulders to hold me täby and I was told. Penicillin Kyrkby is no kyrkby considered a drug täby choice for infections caused by these organisms frisör Dosing: I. But mask hos katt the white spots frisör my gums leave the skin peels on my gums.
So do I suffer the antibiotic of not being able to leave my home in fear of diarrhea or what? Serious, any suggestions, the symptoms that that lead to any of these diagnoses will usually continue in adults for the rest of their lives.
Sales Rep 20 yrs of experience in Cardiology/Electrophysiology/CV Surgery/Vascular Surgery
I am a highly qualified medical device sales representative with 20 years of experience introducing new, innovative technology to the medical community. Results oriented, customer-centric sales approach. Consistent producer.
Tags for this Online Resume: Ohio, medical devices, sales management, sales, sales training, Cath lab
Research Resumes - Analyst Resumes - Winter Springs, FL
Tags for this Online Resume: Electrophysiology, Neuorscience, In Vivo, Invitro, Ion channels
Life Scientist, Atlanta
to grow in my carrier as a scientist, to have an opportunity to utilize my vision of science and the very diverse expertise in the field of medical sciences and bio-sciences.
Tags for this Online Resume: neuroscience, electrophysiology, microscopy, molecular biology, manager, research and development
Cardiovascular Technologist, Travel
Healthcare & Medical Resumes - Admissions Director Resumes - Southern Pines, NC
To continue to grow in the field of Cardiovascular and Electrophysiology field of technology.
The wizard of laboratory research
High energy, innovative scientist with great interpersonal and communication skills. Resourceful, creative, and loyal.
Ideal Companies: Pfizer, Novartis, Merck, Abbott, Lilly, Wyeth
Experienced Research Professional-5 yrs experience- Orange County
To seek a position that could utilize my training and skills in healthcare or biotech setting
Tags for this Online Resume: Pharma/Bio-pharm, Electrophysiology, Molecular Biology, In vivo/Animal, Clinical Research, Clinical Data
Clinical Applications Specialist; EP and Arrhythmia Clinic Team Lead - 15 plus years experience
Healthcare & Medical Resumes - Cardiovascular Technologist Resumes - Lincoln, NE
Career advancement in Cardiovascular Healthcare Management or in Cardiac Device sales
Tags for this Online Resume: Cardiology, Electrophysiology, Management, Clinical , Applications, Specialist
Research Resumes - Research Assistant Resumes - Newark, NJ
I'm a graduating Ph.D. in Biomedical Engineering at New Jersey Institute of Technology/Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences. My dissertation includes interpretation of brain signals via electrophysiological techniques in traumatized animals. Principally, my results suggested that impact induced alterations in cerebellum can be identified by minimal invasive implants without significant behavioral deficits in animal models.
Natural remedies for allergic reactions occurs when cells in the immune system interpret a foreign substance or allergen as harmful.
The immune system overreacts to these allergens and produces histamine, which is a chemical that causes allergy symptoms, such as inflammation, sneezing, and coughing.
Mild allergic reactions can usually be treated with home remedies and over-the-counter (OTC) medications.
However, chronic allergies need treatment from a medical professional. Severe allergic reactions always require emergency medical care.
Treating allergic reactions
Many mild to moderate allergic reactions can be treated at home or with OTC medications. The following treatments are commonly used to reduce the symptoms of an allergic reaction:
Antihistamines
Antihistamines can help to treat most minor allergic reactions regardless of the cause. These drugs reduce the body’s production of histamine, which reduces all symptoms, including sneezing, watering eyes, and skin reactions.
Second-generation antihistamines, including Claritin (loratadine) and Zyrtec (cetirizine), are less likely to cause drowsiness than first-generation antihistamines, such as Benadryl.
Antihistamines come in several forms, usually to help deliver the medication closer to the source of the reaction or make it easier to consume, such as:
oral pills
dissolvable tablets
nasal sprays
liquids
eye drops
Antihistamines in these forms are available from pharmacies, to buy online, or on prescription from a doctor.
Antihistamines can also be taken to prevent allergies. Many people with seasonal or pet allergies will begin taking antihistamines when they know they are going to be exposed to an allergen.
A person who is pregnant or has a liver disorder should consult their doctor before taking antihistamines.
Nasal decongestants
Nasal decongestant pills, liquids, and sprays can also help reduce stuffy, swollen sinuses and related symptoms, such as a sore throat or coughing.
However, decongestant medications should not be taken continuously for more than 72 hours.
Nasal decongestants are available over the counter and online.
Anti-inflammatory medication
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications (NSAIDs) may also be used to help temporarily reduce pain, swelling, and cramping caused by allergies.
Avoid the allergen
The best way to treat and prevent allergic reactions is to know what triggers the reaction and stay away from it, especially food allergens.
When this is not possible or realistic, using antihistamines or decongestants when in contact with allergens can help to treat the symptoms.
Use a saline sinus rinse :
A saline sinus rinse may treat symptoms such as a runny or itchy nose.
When allergies cause sinus problems, the American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology (AAAAI) recommend a person rinse their sinuses with saline. This can remove allergens and clear the airways.
The AAAAI recommend the following saline recipe:
mix 3 teaspoons of salt (without iodide) with 1 teaspoon of baking soda
add 1 teaspoon of this mixture to 8 ounces of boiled water
dissolve the mixture in the water then use as a saline rinse
Sinus rinsing devices can be purchased online or from a pharmacy.
Treating environmental allergies
For airborne allergens, such as pollen, dust, and mold spores, additional treatment options include:
throat lozenges with soothing ingredients, such as menthol, honey, or ginger
shower and wash all clothing after being exposed to an allergen
exercise for a few minutes to help reduce nasal congestion
Treating allergies on the skin: For allergic reactions that cause skin symptoms, including those associated with allergens found in animal saliva, poisonous plants, drugs, chemicals and metals, additional treatment options include:
Topical corticosteroid creams or tablets. Corticosteroids contain steroids that reduce inflammation and itching. Mild forms of these creams can be found online, and a doctor can prescribe stronger versions.
Moisturizing creams. Emollient creams with soothing ingredients, such as calamine can treat skin reactions.
Bite or sting medication. Medication targeted to reduce allergic reactions to insect bites or stings have a similar effect to other allergy medications.
Ice pack. Applying an ice pack wrapped in cloth to the area for 10- to 15-minute intervals can reduce inflammation.
Treating severe allergies: People should speak to a professional if they have or suspect that they have severe or chronic allergies.
A doctor or allergy specialist can prescribe medications that contain much stronger doses of the compounds found in OTC products.
Treatment options for chronic or severe allergies include:
Immunotherapy, or allergy shots. Immunotherapy can be between 90 and 98 percent effective at reducing allergic reactions to insect stings, for instance.
Prescription asthma medications, such as bronchodilators and inhaled corticosteroids.
Oral cromolyn can be taken for food allergies.
Drug desensitization therapy is used for specific allergens.
Everything you need to know about allergies
Allergies happen when a person’s body reacts too strongly to an otherwise harmless substance. Learn more about the symptoms, causes, diagnosis, and treatment for allergies here.
Natural remedies for allergic reactions
Many traditional medicine systems use herbal supplements and extracts to both treat and prevent allergic reactions, especially seasonal allergies.
Though there is little scientific evidence to support the use of most alternative or natural remedies, some people may find that some can provide relief from their symptoms.
The American Association of Naturopathic Physicians recommend the following natural treatments for allergies:
Dietary changes. A low-fat diet high in complex carbohydrates, such as beans, whole grains, and vegetables may reduce allergy reactions.
Bioflavonoids. These plant-based chemicals found in citrus fruits and blackcurrants may act as natural antihistamines. These can also be taken as supplements.
Supplements. Flaxseed oil, zinc, and vitamins A, C, and E are suggested to improve allergy symptoms.
Acupuncture. Acupuncture treatments may help some people to find relief from their symptoms.
Identifying and treating anaphylaxis
An EpiPen is designed to treat anaphylaxis, and should be used at the first sign of a severe allergc reaction.
A very severe allergic reaction can lead to a condition called anaphylaxis, or anaphylactic shock.
Anaphylaxis occurs when the body’s immune response to an allergen is so severe and sudden that the body goes into a state of shock.
Anaphylaxis can impact multiple organs and if left untreated lead to coma, organ failure, and death.
The early symptoms of anaphylaxis can be fairly mild and similar to those of minor to moderate allergic reactions, but they often rapidly worsen.
Symptoms unique to anaphylaxis include:
unexplained anxiety
tingling in the palms of the hand, soles of the feet, and lips
swollen tongue, throat, mouth, and face
difficulty breathing
rapid but weak pulse
low blood pressure
sense of dread or doom
vomiting or diarrhea
confusion or disorientation
loss of consciousness
very pale or blue skin
a heart attack
If the person carries an EpiPen, which is a self-injectable dose of epinephrine that is designed to treat anaphylaxis, inject this into their thigh, as soon as possible.
First aid for anaphylaxis includes:
try to keep the person calm
the person may vomit, so turn them on their side and keep their mouth clear
try to get the person to lay flat on their back with their feet raised about a foot above the ground
make sure the person’s clothing is loose or remove constricting clothing
do not give them anything to drink or eat, even if they ask for it
if they are not breathing, practice CPR with around 100 firm chest compressions every minute until emergency services arrive
If a person does not have an EpiPen, a doctor or paramedic will give an injection of the hormone epinephrine, or adrenaline. This will immediately increase the output of the heart and blood flow throughout the body.
A person should seek medical care each time anaphylaxis occurs. Even if they start to feel better or their symptoms go away, a second severe allergic reaction can occur up to 12 hours after the initial response.
Allergy symptoms
The symptoms associated with an allergic response depend on the specific allergen, how severe the allergy is, and whether a person has touched, swallowed, or inhaled the allergen.
Not everyone responds the same way to each allergen. But there are similar sets of symptoms most people experience when exposed to specific allergens.
Allergic Reactions to skin Allergy Reactions allergy symptoms dust allergy Insect Allergies Skin Allergy
FacebookTwitterLinkedIn
signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis : Know more about it
Previous
The Modern Rules Of Symptoms Of Anaphylactic Reactions
Next
softarch
Recommended Posts
The Modern Rules Of Symptoms Of Anaphylactic Reactions
signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis : Know more about it
Tackle your dust allergy reactions effectively
Recent Posts
The Modern Rules Of Symptoms Of Anaphylactic Reactions
Top 3 Natural Remedies For Allergic Reactions
signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis : Know more about it
8 Most common causes of food allergic reactions
Tackle your dust allergy reactions effectively
Categories
Allergy
Dust Allergy
Food allergies
Insect Allergy
Skin Allergy
Archives
June 2020
April 2020
February 2020
January 2020
About Allergyapp
Alleapp `the first and only allergy app’ for allergic patients and emergency SOS function for severe allergic emergency. It also provides real-time weather information including air quality index from more than 10,000 stations across the globe and detailed air quality pollutants including pm 2.5, NO2, SO2, CO and O3 for selected destinations. Alleapp helps users share their alleriges with friends and family. It also provides travel cards when travelling abroad.
Feinstein Institute Study Finds Medication Commonly Used During Labor Associated with Postpartum Depression | The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research
Home Press Releases Feinstein Institute Study Finds Medication Commonly Used During Labor Associated with Postpartum Depression
MANHASSET, NY – Kristina M. Deligiannidis, MD, associate professor at The Feinstein Institute for Medical Research, along with her colleagues at Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine at Tufts University and the University of Massachusetts Medical School found that a common medication administered during or after labor, synthetic oxytocin, is associated with the development of postpartum depression or anxiety. These findings, which are published today in Depression and Anxiety, could help identify women at risk for postpartum depression and anxiety, a condition that affects one-in-eight women in the United States annually.
How to stop Immigrates! – Junk Malls USA
How to stop Immigrates!
Posted byjunkmall March 10, 2021 March 10, 2021 Posted inBLOG
Call your Reps and Senate, and tell them there is a law that stops people from entering your State.
During a pandemic, certain legal authoritiesExternal, policies and regulations may apply and serve as the foundation for the US Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to respond.
The Public Health Service (PHS) Act forms the foundation of the HHS' legal authority for responding to public emergencies by authorizing the HHS Secretary to take key actions, such as lead all federal public health and medical response, declare a public health emergency, assist states in meeting health emergencies, maintain the Strategic National Stockpile, and control communicable diseases. The PHS Act was amended by the Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA) of 2006External and the Pandemic and All-Hazards Reauthorization Act (PAHPRA) of 2013External.
Under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance ActExternal, the President may declare an emergency at the request of the Governor of an affected State, or a Chief Executive of an affected Indian Tribe. The president can also declare an emergency without a Gubernatorial request if the primary responsibility for response rests with the Federal Government in order to provide expedited Federal assistance and support necessary.
The HHS Secretary may, under section 319 of the PHS ActExternal determine that a disease or disorder presents a public health emergency; or that a public health emergency, including significant outbreaks of infectious disease or bioterrorist attacks, otherwise exists. Following a section 319 declaration, the Secretary can take many actions during an influenza pandemic, including making grants; entering into contracts; and conducting and supporting investigations into the cause, treatment, or prevention of the disease or disorder, and waiving or modifying certain Medicare, Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance Program (CHIP) and Health Insurance Portability Accountability Act (HIPAA) requirements. These waivers or modifications are permitted under Section 1135 of the Social Security ActExternal to ensure sufficient health care items and services are available during a public health emergency.
Under the Public Readiness and Emergency Preparedness Act (PREP Act)External of the PHS Act, the HHS Secretary is also authorized to issue a PREP Act declaration that provides immunity from liability (except for willful misconduct) for claims of loss caused, arising out of, relating to, or resulting from administration or use of countermeasures to diseases, threats and conditions determined by the Secretary to constitute a present, or credible risk of a future public health emergency to entities and individuals involved in the development, manufacture, testing, distribution, administration, and use of such countermeasures. A PREP Act declaration is different from and not dependent on other emergency declarations.
Visit the HHS Office of the Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and Response (ASPR) website for a comprehensive overview of the HHS legal authorities, policies and committeesExternal for responding to public health emergencies. Read the "Public Health Emergency Declarations Q&AExternal" and the "PREP Act Frequently Asked Questions"External for more information about the legal authorities of the HHS Secretary.
The Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic (FD&C) Act is the foundation for Food and Drug Administration's (FDA's) authority and responsibility to protect and promote the public health by, among other things, ensuring the safety and effectiveness of human and veterinary drugs, biological products, and medical devices; and ensuring the safety and security of our nation's food supply. Section 564 of the FD&C Act, authorizes the HHS Secretary to declare an emergency justifying the emergency use authorization (EUA)External of medical countermeasures (MCMs) during public health emergencies. When an EUA is declared, the FDA Commissioner can allow either (a) the use of an unapproved medical product (e.g., drug, vaccine, or diagnostic device) or (b) the unapproved use of an approved medical product during an emergency to diagnose, treat, or prevent a serious or life-threatening disease or condition caused by a chemical, biological, radiological, or nuclear (CBRN) agent. For example, during the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic, the FDA approved the emergency use of antivirals for certain patients and health care settingsExternal.
An EUA declaration can be made only when certain legal criteria are met and when scientific evidence is available to support the use during an emergency. For more information, please visit the following Food and Drug Administration web pages.
FDA Medical Countermeasure (MCM) Legal, Regulatory and Policy FrameworkExternal
FDA Emergency Use AuthoritiesExternal
FDA PAPHRA Q&A for Public Health Preparedness and Response StakeholdersExternal
FDA Emergency Use Authority of Medical Products and Related Authorities (April 2016)External
FDA Emergency use of an Investigational Drug or BiologicExternal
Under section 361 of the PHS Act, the HHS Secretary is authorized to take measures to prevent the entry and spread of communicable diseases from foreign countries into the US and between states. The authority for carrying out these functions on a daily basis is delegated to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), Division of Global Migration and Quarantine. More information about legal authorities for isolation and quarantine is available on the CDC Quarantine and Isolation web page.Related Links
Curriculum – UW Department of Psychiatry – UW–Madison
UW Addiction Psychiatry Fellowship
The curriculum is designed to offer fellows a wide breath and depth of exposure to treating patients as an addiction psychiatrist.
The primary training sites include:
William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital – intake clinic, integrated care clinic, outpatient clinic, pain clinic, group psychotherapy, Suboxone clinic
UnityPoint Health-Meriter's NewStart Substance Abuse Programs – inpatient consultation, outpatient clinic
University of Wisconsin Hospitals and Clinics – HIV clinic, inpatient consultation, outpatient clinic
ARC Community Services, Inc. – women & children
Addiction Services and Pharmacotherapy – medication-assisted treatment
View our ACGME Block Diagram.
ROTATIONS AND EDUCATIONAL EXPERIENCES
Fellows participate in weekly, shared didactics with Addiction Medicine fellows. Didactic lecturers include faculty from both Addiction Psychiatry and Addiction Medicine and are specifically designed so interaction and feedback from various specialties can be assimilated for the most complete perspective both diagnostically and from a training and treatment view.
Rotation site: William S. Middleton Memorial Veterans Hospital
Rotation length: 10% FTE
The VA Psychotherapy rotation provides intensive psychotherapy training and experience utilizing evidence-based psychotherapy methods to treat addictive disorders. Fellows learn to facilitate group therapies. Fellows also work with families and patients to enhance participation in community supports.
Rotation site: UW Health
Rotation length: 2.5% FTE
In the UW HIV Clinic, fellows work with the UW Health HIV Care & Prevention Program to provide information, treatment, and care for patients living with HIV/AIDS, regardless of ability to pay or insurance status. Fellows follow referred patients to address substance use issues and comorbid mental health and chronic pain conditions.
Fellows participate in multiple rotations:
Rotation site: UnityPoint Health-Meriter
On the UPH-Meriter Consults rotation, fellows work with an interdisciplinary team to provide addiction psychiatry/medicine consultation to patients. This rotation provides an important opportunity for exposure to both substance use in pregnancy and neonatal abstinence syndrome in an acute setting. Fellows conduct comprehensive assessments of patients admitted to Meriter's inpatient units, including the psychiatric unit, with substance use disorders and comorbid conditions.
Rotation length: 5% FTE
On the UW Consults rotation, fellows work with the UW Health Consultation Service to provide interdisciplinary addiction consultation services for hospitalized patients. Fellows participate in initial evaluations and treatment plan formulation and have ample opportunities to assess patients in acute withdrawal (primarily alcohol and opioids). Fellows participate in post-discharge treatment planning for patients with active substance use disorders, thus developing familiarity with community treatment resources and formulation of community-based treatment planning and care coordination.
In the VA ADTP Intake Clinic, fellows evaluate and consult on patients referred from a variety of sources including: community services, general psychiatrists, primary care physicians, and the entire range of VA providers. Fellows conduct comprehensive assessments of patients with addiction disorders and other comorbid psychiatric conditions. Fellows learn how to determine placement at the appropriate levels of care in the VA system. Fellows coordinate care with a team of addiction therapists, pharmacists, nursing staff, and other prescribers including physicians and nurse practitioners.
In the VA Integrated Care Clinic, fellows work with The Primary Care – Mental Health Integration (PC-MHI) service to provide care for veterans' mental health conditions in the primary care setting. A primary focus of the experience is communication and function as a member of an interdisciplinary team consisting of pharmacists, social workers, psychiatrists, and psychologists. Clinical activities for fellows include brief problem-focused assessments in PC-MHI, depression and alcohol use disorder care management, panel management, and medication management visits with a focus on behavior change and Motivational Interviewing.
Rotation site: Addiction Services and Pharmacotherapy (ASAP)
Addiction Services and Pharmacotherapy (ASAP) is a full-service medication-assisted treatment (MAT) program with a strong counseling emphasis for patients with opioid use disorders. ASAP individualizes treatment to each patient and utilizes all FDA approved MAT treatments including: methadone, buprenorphine, and naltrexone.
Outpatient Continuity and Suboxone Clinics
In the UPH-Meriter Outpatient and Suboxone Clinic, fellows see a diverse array of patients, including young adults and those with a variety of insurances (including BadgerCare and Medicare). Fellows conduct intake assessments and medication management with brief psychotherapy appointments, while referring to therapy services as appropriate.
In the UW Outpatient Clinic, fellows rotate at the UW Health Behavioral Health and Recovery Clinic, an academic teaching clinic with a patient population generally similar to that seen in private practice. Most patients have co-occurring substance use disorders and psychiatric disorders. Fellows observe patient visits with addiction psychiatrists and Master's level therapists. Fellows build their own caseload by completing initial intake evaluations. Fellows integrate pharmacologic treatment and psychotherapeutic techniques (e.g. Motivational Enhancement, 12-Step Facilitation, and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy) into follow-up visits. When possible, fellows are engaged in evaluation and treatment of adolescents and young adults with substance use issues, including evaluation, case management, and individual/family therapy.
Rotation length: 35% FTE
The VA Outpatient Clinic provides fellows' core outpatient experience and is scheduled throughout the entire fellowship. Fellows provide longitudinal care to patients with substance use disorders and comorbid psychiatric disorders. Fellows assume the lead role as patients' primary addiction psychiatry provider, with the physician supervisor retaining ultimate responsibility and accountability for patient care decisions. Fellows provide pharmacologic and psychotherapeutic treatment of substance use disorders as well as comorbid psychiatric disorders in patient appointments. Fellows utilize evidence-based psychotherapeutic techniques, including: 12-Step Facilitation, Motivational Enhancement Therapy, and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy.
In the VA Suboxone Clinic, fellows work as a member of a multidisciplinary team of social workers, nurse practitioners, and physicians to evaluate and treat veterans with opioid use disorders. Fellows assess veterans for opioid use disorder, perform suboxone inductions, order and evaluate labs, and provide ongoing treatment of these veterans in their VA Outpatient Clinic. Fellows also work with, teach, and supervise psychiatry residents who also rotate through this clinic.
Fellows are required to complete a quality improvement project during their one-year fellowship. Fellows have protected time to work on these efforts and have access to faculty mentors to help them develop and implement a project. Most years fellows choose processes related to improvement in access or safety of patients, often at the VA Hospital, but opportunities for a QI project may also be found with other training sites. Examples of recent fellows' work in quality improvement include: using VA dashboards to look at the number of veterans who continue opioid antagonist therapy overtime for opioid use disorder.
Rotation site: ARC Community Services, Inc.
ARC Community Services, Inc. provides trauma-informed, intensive outpatient program (IOP)-level care to a diverse array of women, including pregnant women and women with infants and young children. Patients are ethnically and geographically diverse, and many patients are from rural communities in Wisconsin with patterns of substance use disorders that are less common in the Madison area.
In the VA Pain Clinic, fellows work on a multidisciplinary consultation service. Disciplines present in the clinic include rehab medicine, neurology, OT/wellness, psychology, nursing, and pharmacy. Fellows participate in preparation and chart review, assessment in the visit, team-based consultation and treatment planning, and communication of recommendations to patients living with chronic pain. There is ongoing education on the biopsychosocial model of chronic pain with a focus on how to communicate this to patients in order to promote self-management.
Specializing in weight reduction & wellness applications, custom nutrition plans, and fitness coaching. The 60-minute suggestion relies on the Nationwide Academy of Science's recommendation for people who find themselves trying to prevent weight achieve, or keep themselves from regaining after weight loss – not for people who are trying to extend or preserve their cardio-respiratory health or health. There's plenty of research to point out that half-hour of physical exercise a day will allow you to achieve a lot of health and fitness benefits.
While these may look like good reasons to decelerate and take it simple as you age, they're even higher causes to get shifting. Changing into more energetic can energize your temper, relieve stress, allow you to handle symptoms of sickness and ache, and improve your general sense of nicely-being. And reaping the rewards of exercise doesn't must contain strenuous exercises or journeys to the gym. You can achieve the benefits from adding more motion and exercise to your life, even in small methods. No matter your age or physical condition, it's by no means too late to get your body transferring, enhance your well being and outlook, and improve how you age.
This course is ideal for individuals who want to work within the areas of health, well being and exercise instruction. Our one-week program is a good way to get a leap start on the trail to raised health. It is geared in direction of people that merely can't make the four-week time dedication. Muscle helps you with aerobic train. The stronger you might be, the higher you will be at any cardio exercise.
Johnson made a reputation for herself due to her massive collection of health DVDs. (She holds the Guinness World Document for the most health movies produced by a person.) Now she's focused on self-help and business coaching with an emphasis on reaching objectives while avoiding burnout. That is the mission of her popular SmartLife Push Journal and her two high-ranked podcasts , The Chalene Show and Build Your Tribe.
Train and physical exercise might be satisfying. They provide you an opportunity to unwind, enjoy the outdoor or simply engage in activities that make you cheerful. Physical exercise can also allow you to connect with household or pals in a fun social setting. In a month that is stuffed with objective driven tasks like NaNoWriMo, NaPodPoMo, NaBloPoMo and others, it made sense to join the fun with a concentrate on private wellness. So, if you happen to've been waiting for the proper second to take cost of your well being and fitness then join the Health Health Magnificence Quest 30 Day Challenge.
AFPA thrives on having the most complete selection of health, health & vitamin packages. With over 30 unique certifications, you'll find the precise curriculum you are on the lookout for. Select the class that speaks to you. Low-fat milk is a source of carbohydrates, protein and electrolytes and can also make it easier to to rehydrate after exercise. Attempt making a smoothie with banana and milk to help your physique restore and recover.ツClick on the picture beneath to open the PDFツ(PDF zero.6 MB, opens in a brand new window).
Energy drink manufacturers might be having extra jittery palpitations than their extremely caffeinated prospects, what with the sugar tax and a mooted authorities ban on promoting the drinks to youngsters. Now, additionally they have wholesome competitors. Our life present no indicators of slowing down, so we'll see extra manufacturers using 窶歪lean vitality' codecs to supply the same increase without the obesity and coronary heart illness dangers ,窶・says Future Laboratory writer, Rhiannon McGregor. Crack open a carbonated chilly brew from Sandows (named after Victorian strongman Eugen Sandow), or strive power drink Flyte, made with green espresso beans and maca root. Imagine the buzz.
​Pain, swelling, redness, immobility and heat -- these are all common signs of inflammation with injuries or an infection. Chronic inflammation also occurs inside our body and can present itself in other ways. When inflammation triggers sensory nerve endings, it can result in symptoms such as fatigue, rashes, and chest, abdominal and joint pain.
What is Inflammation?
Inflammation is a natural function with a bad reputation. It’s a word most of us associate with pain, discomfort and poor health -- yet its ultimate purpose is actually to help us. Without inflammation, injuries could fester and infections could become deadly.
When the body is injured, inflammation is a signal to the immune system to send white blood cells so the healing process may begin. Unfortunately, when inflammation continues on for too long, it can potentially trigger numerous other chronic health issues in the body including cancers, depression, food sensitivities and asthma. In fact, some say inflammation is the “new cholesterol” due to its direct link to heart disease.
In some cases, inflammation occurs when the immune systems revolts against us and attacks our own bodies. Autoimmune diseases include rheumatoid arthritis, type 1 diabetes, IBD, among dozens of others. There are over 80 different autoimmune diseases.
Top Tips to Reduce Inflammation
First, let’s take a quick look at inflammatory foods that you definitely don’t want to put into your body. You probably already know all the usual suspects by name – sugar and artificial sweeteners, fried foods and saturated fats, processed meats and grains, dairy, caffeine and alcohol. These foods can disrupt gut bacteria, spike insulin levels, and bolster inflammation. Identifying and eliminating your food sensitivities via IgG Blood testing or an elimination diet can be a very helpful next step.
Wondering what those anti-inflammatory foods are? The good news is they are delicious.
1. Eat Raw, Organic Fruits & Veggies
Organic foods are a great place to start when looking to adhere to a more anti-inflammatory diet. Grown in mineral-dense soil, organic foods tend to be more alkalizing and have a higher vitamin and mineral content.
In order to keep those vitamin and mineral levels high, it’s also helpful to eat raw fruits and veggies, which are also known as life-giving foods. Cooking can deplete minerals, which is why it’s important to take every opportunity you can to get eat fresh and raw so you get to enjoy the full nutritional benefits. For example, Vitamin K is found in dark leafy greens like broccoli and spinach, and is excellent for reducing inflammation.
2. Add in lots of Alkaline foods
In addition to fruits and vegetables, nuts and legumes are also alkaline foods that can help balance your pH and reduce acidity. While being mindful of your body’s pH, you might be wonder about the impact of acidic foods, like tomatoes or citrus, and how they affect inflammation. Surprisingly these foods don’t create acidity in the body. Instead they may actually help to restore your pH balance. Even apple cider vinegar is alkaline-forming (however, other vinegars are not).
3. Fish & Plant Proteins
Believe it or not, most high protein foods, like meat, can actually be acid forming. In this case, plant proteins, such as almonds and beans, are great alternatives to reduce acidity and inflammation.
Need your meat? Then eat more fish. Fish oils, as well as other foods rich in healthy fats like omega 3, are proven to have a variety of health benefits, including significant anti-inflammatory effects.
Fish is also a great source of Vitamin D. Vitamin D deficiency has been associated with a wide range of inflammatory conditions.
Grass-fed meats are a good option if you prefer red meat, due to their higher concentration of conjugated linoleic acid and omega 3s.
4. Antioxidant-Rich Foods
Those susceptible to chronic inflammation may also benefit from supplementing their diets with food sources that contain bioactive molecules. For example, curcumin is the compound found in turmeric root that gives curry its bright yellow color. A powerful antioxidant, curcumin’s ability to reduce brain inflammation has been shown to be beneficial on both Alzheimer’s disease and major depression. Curcumin has been shown to not only prevent memory problems from worsening, but also to improve them.
Complement your curry with a little watercress salad on the side, including pears, dill weed, onion and chives – all sources of the antioxidant known as isorhamnetin.
Add a little red wine and some berries for dessert, which are rich in resveratrol, and you’ve got yourself an anti-inflammatory party. Resveratrol is an antioxidant produced by certain plants in response to injury or when under attack by bacteria or fungi. This is what makes dark-coloured grapes and berries such excellent health boosters for your body.
And of course, you can’t forget the dark chocolate! The flavonoids found in cacao are extremely potent antioxidants and anti-inflammatory agents, which are great for your brain and your heart. New research also shows that consuming dark chocolate with a high concentration of cacao (minimum 70% with 30% organic cane sugar) has a positive effect on stress levels and inflammation, while also improving your memory, immunity and mood. You read that right – chocolate really is good for you (but make sure its good quality and that you are not over doing it).
5. Going Beyond Diet- get your stress in check!
While diet definitely plays a role, stress is also a major contributor to inflammation in the body. Stress can be triggered by lack of sleep, lifestyle changes, or any other number of factors. Getting a good night’s rest and making time to meditate or practice other stress-reducing activities, like yoga or Tai chi, are also very effective ways to promote good health and reduce inflammation.
All it takes is a few conscious decisions about your diet and lifestyle and you are on your way to a healthier you.
​
Are you dealing with chronic health issues triggered by inflammation?
Do you still have more questions about how you can make greater changes towards a pain-free life?
Do you want a customized approach to managing inflammation and preventing disease?
​
Please feel free to contact our clinic and we can find your best solutions together. Call or book your complimentary Health Discovery session at 519-275-2187 ext. 7 or book online.
In health,
Dr. Keila Roesner BHSc ND
References
Dark Chocolate Reduces Stress and Inflammation https://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2018/04/180424133628.htm
Ford CT, Richardson S, McArdle F, et al. Identification of (poly)phenol treatments that modulate the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines by human lymphocytes. The British Journal of Nutrition. 2016;115(10):1699-1710. doi:10.1017/S0007114516000805.
Ridker PM. Closing the Loop on Inflammation and Atherothrombosis: Why Perform the Cirt and Cantos Trials? Transactions of the American Clinical and Climatological Association. 2013;124:174-190.
Reddy ST1, Wang CY, Sakhaee K, Brinkley L, Pak CY. Effect of low-carbohydrate high-protein diets on acid-base balance, stone-forming propensity, and calcium metabolism. Am J Kidney Dis. 2002 Aug;40(2):265-74. PMID: 12148098 DOI: 10.1053/ajkd.2002.34504
Campbell AW. Autoimmunity and the Gut. Autoimmune Diseases. 2014;2014:152428. doi:10.1155/2014/152428.
Memory and Brain Amyloid and Tau Effects of a Bioavailable Form of Curcumin in Non-Demented Adults: A Double-Blind, Placebo-Controlled 18-Month Trial https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1064748117305110?via%3Dihub#bib0015
0 Comments
​Top 75 Naturopath Blogs & Websites For Naturopathic Doctors
Get Your Copy
Author
Dr. Keila Roesner is a Naturopathic Doctor. When not treating patients she is also an enthusiastic barefoot-strolling, music-loving, yoga-doing kitchen wiz - who also happens to be a wrestling fan.
Our most recent news stories are below. To read older stories, please see our news archive on the left sidebar.
The College of Arts, Social Sciences, and Celtic Studies recently invited co-director of the Centre for Pain Research, Professor Brian McGuire, to speak as part of the New Professor's Inaugural Lecture Series.
In his talk, Prof. McGuire spoke about work taking place in the Centre for Pain Research, focusing on clinical and psychological projects. The talk was also livestreamed from the Moore Institute for Research in the Humanities and Social Studies for those unable to attend in person, and both the slides and live recording are available at the link below.
https://www.nuigalway.ie/colleges-and-schools/arts-social-sciences-and-celtic-studies/lecture-series/#BMcGuire
The Centre for Pain Research recently welcomed Prof. Kevin Vowles to Galway, where he gave a talk on his work around Acceptance and Commitment Therapy in the Department of Psychology. While in Galway, he also attended a CPR meeting to hear about the various research projects currently underway.
Prof. Vowles is an internationally recognised expert in ACT for chronic pain and is co-author of the original ACT treatment manual on which we ha‌ve modelled our online ACT interventions at Centre for Pain Research. He has published around 80 papers in the area of pain management and is co-author of the book "Main, C. J., Keefe, F. J., Jensen, M. P., Vlaeyen, J. W. S., & Vowles, K. E. (Eds.). (2014). Fordyce’s Behavioral Methods for Chronic Pain and Illness. New York: Walters-Kluwer.".
Dr Brian Slattery, post-doctoral researcher was successful in his application for a HRB Trials Methodology Research Network award to carry out a study within a trial (SWAT), looking at methods for improving recruitment and retention of participants for an Acceptance and Commitment Therapy intervention for people with multiple chronic conditions.
Dr. Brian Slattery also received funding from IRC New Horizons to establish a new E-Health Research and Innovation Network (ERIN) which will launch on 14 June at NUIG.
Darina Gormley and Caroline Jennings, research trainees, were highly commended for their research presentations at the recent Psychology Students of Ireland Conference at NUIG.
Grace O'Sullivan won the prize for best poster presentation at the recent School of Psychology research day.
Sarah Jarrin won first prize for her poster at the Faculty of Pain Medicine meeting in Dublin earlier this year.
Angeline Traynor has been awarded a PhD Thesis Write-Up Bursary and also a travel bursary for the international Paediatric Pain conference in Kuala Lumpur.
Monika Pilch has been awarded a Hardiman PhD Scholarship to examine am augmented reality treatment for phantom limb pain.
At the recent CPR Annual Research Day - winners of the Best Poster Presentations were Orlaith Mannion and Mehnaz Ferdousi, and the winner of the Best Short Oral Presentation was Louise Corcoran.
Our annual CPR Research day was held on the 10th of March in the Psychology building, NUI Galway. This year’s Research Day marked the 10 year anniversary of the Centre for Pain Research, and for the first time hosted an Irish Pain Research Network (IPRN) workshop on systematic reviews. A range of both preclinical and clinical topics were covered throughout the day, in short talks and posters by invited speakers and members of the Centre for Pain Research.
Many thanks to all who attended the event, those who presented talks and posters, and particularly to our keynote speakers, Dr Cyril Herry (INSERM, Neurocentre Magendie, University of Bordeaux) and Dr Deirdre Desmond (National University of Ireland Maynooth). A special thanks to Dr Jenny McSharry (National University of Ireland Galway) for hosting the IPRN workshop in the afternoon.
Pictured above with co-directors Prof Brian McGuire and Prof David Finn, and guest speaker Dr Deirde Desmond, are the winners of the Best Poster Presentations, Orlaith Mannion and Mehnaz Ferdousi, and the winner of the Best Short Oral Presentation, Louise Corcoran.
A new online treatment programme, set up by expert psychologists and physiotherapists, aims to help those who are managing multiple chronic health conditions.
The Centre for Pain Research at NUI Galway, with the support of the Health Research Board, is currently recruiting people with two or more chronic health conditions to take part in a research study. The Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) trial will provide eight online sessions to people in the comfort of their own home. At the moment, such supports are scarce and generally aimed at the self-management of specific chronic conditions, such as diabetes or chronic pain.
Research has shown that having multiple chronic conditions, also known as multimorbidity is associated with a number of negative outcomes, such as a decline in physical and mental functioning, a decreased quality of life and a greater risk of mortality. The ACT trial is based on emerging clinical science that demonstrates the usefulness of managing health conditions through mindfulness and psychological well-being.
The study is open to people all over Ireland and will take place over the coming months. GPs and other health professionals around the country are being encouraged to refer suitable people to the study.
The free online sessions in the ACT programme will focus on values and goals that are individual to each person in the trial. Participants will be provided with instructions on a range of activity-pacing techniques to encourage more consistent levels of activity from day-to-day.
Dr Brian Slattery, coordinator of the study at the Centre for Pain Research, NUI Galway, says: “We know that psychological therapies provided to people with chronic conditions are beneficial, but can be hard to access. In this trial, we will offer this online programme to people all over the country, with any combination of conditions, to try alongside any existing treatments they are already using.”
People who take part in the ACT trial will not need to attend any clinic or the University at any stage. All materials are tailored for those wishing to learn effective ways of managing their health conditions. Participants can access physiotherapy and all medical services as usual while involved in the trial. Study supervisor Dr Brian McGuire, NUI Galway, said: “This is a promising new online pain management programme and we are hopeful it will be of benefit to people with multimorbidity.”
For further information, please contact the research team at the Centre for Pain Research, NUI Galway, email painresearch@nuigalway.ie, or phone 091 495832. GPs or physiotherapists who are interested in referring suitable patients to the trial can also use these contact details.
Do you know or are you the parent of a teen (age 10 - 16) suffering from chronic pain? You can help the Centre for Pain Research at NUI Galway evaluate an 8-week online pain management program for teens with chronic pain to help them and their parents to cope with pain.
Please email painresearch@nuigalway.ie with "Pediatric chronic pain study" in the subject line for more information.
Left to right: Ms Aoife Smith (Mundipharma, prize sponsors), Mr Conor Rothwell (Mundipharma, prize sponsors), Ms Andy Cochrane (Maynooth University; winner of the Clinical Research Medal, Ms Louise Corcoran (NUI Galway, winner of the Non Clinical Research Medal), Prof David Finn (President of the Irish Pain Society), Ms Joanne O' Brien (President-Elect of the Irish Pain Society).
An NUI Galway PhD student was awarded the Pain Research Medal at the Irish Pain Society’s Annual Scientific Meeting which took place in Dublin on Saturday 3rd September. The medal was awarded to Louise Corcoran from Tuam, Co. Galway for her poster presentation.
The research poster presentations were judged by a panel of international experts who commended the high quality of the research. Researchers from the NUI Galway’s Centre for Pain Research and Galway Neuroscience Centre have had an outstanding record of success in this competition over the years, being among the prize winners on every occasion.
Louise Corcoran, a 3rd-year PhD candidate in the Discipline of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, won the Non-Clinical Pain Research Medal for her presentation ‘Impaired expression of fear-conditioned analgesia in the stress- and pain-hyperresponsive Wistar-Kyoto rat strain’. Louise’s research, supervised by Professor David Finn and Dr Michelle Roche, involves the investigation of mechanisms underlying co-existent mood and pain disorders as well as the identification of future therapeutic targets. Louise’s research is funded jointly by Science Foundation Ireland, NUI Galway, and a Government of Ireland Postgraduate Fellowship from the Irish Research Council. The Clinical Pain research Medal was awarded to Andy Cochrane of Maynooth University for her poster entitled ‘Screening for the risk of long-term sick leave and work disability amongst workers with musculoskeletal pain.’
Professor David Finn, Co-Director of NUI Galway’s Centre for Pain Research, said: “We are delighted to see NUI Galway researcher Louise win this prestigious prize for her work. Our pain research aims to advance the understanding and treatment of chronic pain, a major unmet clinical need affecting at least 20% of the population.”
AB-Therapeutics hold the First Meeting of its international Scientific Advisory Board - Ability Pharma
AB-Therapeutics hold the First Meeting of its international Scientific Advisory Board
AB-Therapeutics SL, a clinical-stage pharmaceutical biotech company in early 2012, held the first meeting of its International Scientific Advisory Board (SAB) in its facilities at Bellaterra, Barcelona on May 27th.
The meeting gathered together for the first time the whole panel of AB-Therapeutics advisors that is integrated by a group of experts that can support all aspects related to the research and development of cancer drugs, from discovery up to Phase II clinical trials. The SAB is composed by Antonio Perez MD (Chairman of the SAB) who held senior positions, including Medical Director, in clinical development programs at Almirall, Novartis (Headquarters) and Esteve; Jesús Llenas PhD, former Head of Preclinical Pharmacology at Almirall; Peter Wyld MD, who held senior positions, including Medical Director, in clinical development of compounds for oncology at Novartis, J&J Oncologicals, Biogen and Amgen; José Miguel Lizcano PhD, who has strong expertise in signal transduction and is Professor at the Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona; José Luis Fábregas PhD, who was Senior Director of Pharmaceutical Development at Almirall; Jesús García Foncillas MD PhD, who have strong knowledge on clinical oncology and clinical development of new drug and is the is currently the Director of Oncology and Radiotherapy at the University Clinic, University of Navarra and is member of the Steering Committee for the European Medicines Agency (EMA); and José Luis Perez Gracia MD PhD, clinical oncologist at University Clinic, University of Navarra, with broad experience in drug development both at the academia and at the pharmaceutical company Eli Lilly.
The objectives of the meeting were fully achieved, and more specifically, evaluating the competitiveness of AB-Therapeutics technology, the identification of the strategy towards the successful Clinical Trial Application (CTA) of the drug candidate ABTL0812 and the design of a clinical trial envisaged to allow a proof of concept of this compound in cancer patients in early 2012.
