books.google.com - Here is an approach to living with chronic pain unlike any you've seen before, one that breaks through pain to help you live the rich and full life you deserve. Based on acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT), one of the most promising and fastest growing psychotherapies in use today, this book breaks...https://books.google.com/books/about/Living_Beyond_Your_Pain.html?id=oPBsO7fW0KYC&utm_source=gb-gplus-shareLiving Beyond Your Pain
0 Reviewshttps://books.google.com/books/about/Living_Beyond_Your_Pain.html?id=oPBsO7fW0KYC
JoAnne Dahl, PhD, is professor of psychology at Uppsala University, Sweden. JoAnne is a clinical psychologist specializing in behavior medicine. She is coauthor of the The Art and Science of Valuing in Psychotherapy, Acceptance and Commitment Therapy for Chronic Pain, Living Beyond Your Pain, and ACT and RFT in Relationships. Steven C. Hayes, PhD, is Nevada Foundation Professor and director of clinical training in the department of psychology at the University of Nevada, Reno. An author of forty-one books and nearly 600 scientific articles, his career has focused on analysis of the nature of human language and cognition, and its application to the understanding and alleviation of human suffering and promotion of human prosperity. His work has received several awards, including the Impact of Science on Application Award from theSociety for the Advancement of Behavior Analysis, and the Lifetime Achievement Award from the Association for Behavioral and Cognitive Therapies. Tobias Lundgren, MS, is a licensed clinical psychologist specializing in cognitive behavior therapy and ACT. He is an active clinician and a researcher in the areas of behavior medicine, psychometrics, and self-destructive behavior. Lundgren is affiliated with the psychology department at the University of Uppsala in Sweden, and has conducted research in many developing countries.
Life Spine has announced the initiation of the SIMPACT sacroiliac joint (SI) fixation outcomes study, with Keith Maxwell of Southeastern Sports Medicine and Orthopedics...
The US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved the M6-C artificial cervical disc (Orthofix Medical) for patients suffering from cervical disc degeneration. The...
Three new StabiLink Dual Lamina Implants (Southern Spine) have been released. Alan H Daniels, associate professor of Orthopaedic Surgery at The Warren Alpert Medical...
The first US patients have been treated with the Mazor X Stealth Edition (Medtronic) for spine surgery following its commercial launch. The technology offers...
Daniel Spencer is a business manager at Charlton Morris, an executive search firm specialising in orthopaedics, spine and simulation. He argues that while adoption...
Back pain app creator, Kaia Health, today announces it has raised US$10 million in a Series A round led by Balderton Capital. The investment...
Mighty Oak Medical has received CE mark clearance for its patient-specific, 3D-printed FIREFLY pedicle screw navigation system, extending its use into the European market....
Ulrich medical USA has announced the market entry of a vertebral body replacement device which is the company's flagship technology in the US spine implant...
The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare has granted a marketing authorisation for EVENITY (romosozumab; Amgen and UCB) for the treatment of osteoporosis...
Spineway, in collaboration with its Peruvian distributor, presented its operating techniques to some one hundred local surgeons during a recent symposium in Peru. Established in...
The Society for Brain Mapping and Therapeutics (SBMT) and the Brain Mapping Foundation (BMF) recently hosted their 5th Annual Neuroscience-20 event in Buenos Aires,...
Swedish digital healthcare provider, Min Doktor, and Kaia Health, a digital therapeutics company, have partnered to offer back pain treatment through a mobile application....
Based on its recent analysis of the North America spinal fusion device performance enhancers market, Frost & Sullivan recognises Vallum with the 2018 North America...
The successful start of a first in human clinical study for the zLOCK spinal facet joint fixation system (ZygoFix) has been announced. The clinical...
The Effect of Compatibility Between Benefit and Payment Patterns in Evaluating Financing Decisions: a Test of the Alignment Hypothesis | ACR
The Effect of Compatibility Between Benefit and Payment Patterns in Evaluating Financing Decisions: a Test of the Alignment Hypothesis
Seigyoung Auh and Chuan-Fong Shih (2005) ,"The Effect of Compatibility Between Benefit and Payment Patterns in Evaluating Financing Decisions: a Test of the Alignment Hypothesis", in AP - Asia Pacific Advances in Consumer Research Volume 6, eds. Yong-Uon Ha and Youjae Yi, Duluth, MN : Association for Consumer Research, Pages: 78.
Asia Pacific Advances in Consumer Research Volume 6, 2005 Page 78
Seigyoung Auh, Brock University, Canada
Chuan-Fong Shih, Wake Forest University, U.S.A.
As consumers increasingly use debt and installment payments to finance durable goods, understanding of how financing decisions are made can allow marketers to better design financing schemes that will stimulate purchases.
In a typical financing scenario, the consumer makes payments for an agreed upon time period and in exchange uses the product and reaps the benefits that are derived from consumption. Research has shown that consumers prefer to match the cost stream associated with the financing payments with the benefit streams that accrue from using the product (Hirst, Joyce, and Schadewald 1994; Prelec and Loewenstein 1998). When unbalance between the two types of stream occur, people are less likely to choose financing as a method of payment. This has been one of the primary reasons for people's hesitance for financing services such as vacations since the benefits terminate once the trip is over but the payments used for financing the trip continue (Hirst, Joyce, and Schadewald 1994).
First, we attempt to capture how consumers prefer to match the length of benefit streams with the length of cost streams (experiment 1). We specifically address this in the context of a widely used and accepted promotion, payment deferrals. Second, whereas prior research has found a linear pattern for mental depreciation of durable goods, we contest this and suggest a non-linear mental depreciation pattern for high-tech products (experiment 2). Third, past research has been solely focused on the temporal contiguity of costs and benefits thereby suggesting that as long as the benefit stream coincides and overlaps with the cost stream, consumers will be favorable towards financing (Hirst, Joyce, and Schadewald 1994). We build and extend this argument by asserting that it is not only the length of cost and benefit streams that are relevant but also the pattern of costs and benefits that is of utmost importance in determining consumer's preference for financing (experiment 3). Thus, we tested the presence and validity of the matching between the benefit and payment streams, the alignment hypothesis, in a series of three experiments.
In three experiments, we confirmed the presence of the alignment hypothesis in consumer financing decisions. Experiment 1 confirmed consumer's preference for temporal contiguity between the benefits accrued from using products with the payments resulting from using a financing scheme. In experiment 2, we examine the alignment hypothesis by testing for the possibility of non-linearity in the benefits that accrue from using high-tech products or more generally, products that become obsolete quickly over time. Our study found that durable products may have a different rate of mental depreciation. Products with a high newness premium such as computers have a kinked mental depreciation curve such that there is greater depreciation early in the product's life than in the later parts. Products which provide stable benefits in its life cycle instead exhibit a linear depreciation curve. Finally, in experiment 3, we build on this non-linear benefit pattern to explicitly test our alignment hypothesis and find that consumers prefer to align their payment stream to their product's mental depreciation pattern.
Hirst, D. Eric, Edward J. Joyce, and Michael S. Schadewald (1994), "Mental Accounting and Outcome Contiguity in Consumer-Borrowing Decisions," Organizational Behavior and Human Decision Processes, 58, 136-152.
Prelec, Drazan and George Loewenstein (1998), "The Red and the Black: Mental Accounting of Savings and Debt," Marketing Science, 17 (1), 4-28.
Registered NDIS Psychology Provider in Melbourne - Soaring Health
It's now common knowledge that mental and emotional healing and techniques can enhance physical recovery. Evidence-based talk therapy with an NDIS-registered psychologist can also help to build self-esteem, identify goals and restore belief in a satisfying life after an accident, injury or trauma as well as helping to manage the frustrations of changed life circumstances. Maybe you're plagued by intrusive thoughts or memories of trauma. You may be seeking a natural way to manage chronic pain or need support and motivation to persevere on the road to recovery after a setback.
Or perhaps you wish to rebuild your confidence or find a new direction after time out from the workforce. If you're living with a disability, you may be surprised by how your thoughts and beliefs affect your capacity to achieve the things you wish to. NDIS psychology providers can help to correct faulty thought patterns that may be holding you back. Have you considered consulting an NDIS-registered psychologist or NDIS clinical psychologist?
Whatever your challenges, a Soaring Health NDIS-registered psychologist will use personalised, evidence-based therapeutic paradigms and techniques such as cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) to support you to realise your own solutions towards your wellbeing goals. For clients suffering from low-self esteem, anxiety or depression – all common by-products of trauma, complex grief, loss of independence and isolation – an NDIS-registered psychologist or NDIS clinical psychologist can support you to gain confidence in your own capacities and help you to cultivate a meaningful, satisfying life.
Services provided by an NDIS-registered psychologist
Issues that may be treated by an NDIS-registered psychologist
As NDIS psychology providers, we have designed our clinics to ensure that the Soaring Health experience is seamless, welcoming and therapeutic for clients with varying needs and abilities. Facilities such as ramps, wide corridors, hand rails, large change rooms and selected furniture enable seamless access to our state-of-the-art therapy rooms, which are equipped with all the resources required to provide you with a goal-driven, therapeutic consultation with your NDIS psychologist in Craigieburn, Thomastown or Epping.
As NDIS psychology providers, Soaring Health's psychologists offer in-home services that enable you to access the treatment and care you require in the comfort of your own home. In-home services also enable an NDIS-registered psychologist to see your home environment and provide you with practical advice, recommendations and personalised do-it-yourself therapy to optimise your level of functioning. To enquire about in-home consultations with an NDIS psychologist in Craigieburn, Thomastown or Epping or to find out whether home services are available in your area, please call our friendly team on (03) 9013-5987.
Your Soaring Health NDIS-registered psychologist is experienced in providing community consultations at community centres, respite centres, schools, aged care facilities and kindergartens. As NDIS psychology providers, we have the required training and authorisations to provide medical therapeutic services at these centres. Seeing clients in these settings allows an NDIS-registered psychologist to work on community participation goals, behavioural support plans and social interactions in different dynamic and real-life environments. Please speak to your Soaring Health practitioner about community consultations with an NDIS psychologist in Craigieburn, Thomastown or Epping.
Soaring Health provided telehealth consultations well before the COVID pandemic. We have refined remote consultations to deliver seamless, secure, easy-to-join telehealth appointments while providing the same level of treatment service you'd receive with an in-person consultation. Connecting with your NDIS-registered psychologist really is as simple as clicking a button, no matter where you are. As well as bypassing travel and mobility limitations, telehealth is recommended for clients with a compromised immune system. As NDIS psychology providers, we strive to make your treatment experience as safe and convenient as possible.
President Trump on Wednesday said Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director Dr. Robert Redfield gave Congress “incorrect information” about masks and the speed of COVID-19 vaccine distribution.
Redfield told a Senate subcommittee hours earlier that the public won’t receive a potential vaccine until summer 2021. He also said wearing a face mask probably is better protection against COVID-19 than will be a vaccine.
“I think he made a mistake,” Trump said at a White House press briefing.
“We’ll be able to distribute at least 100 million vaccine doses by the end of 2020 and a large number much sooner than that,” Trump said. “Under no circumstance will it be as late as the doctor said.”
Trump said that he called Redfield to express his displeasure.
“When I called up Robert today, I said to him, ‘What’s with the mask?’ He said, ‘I think I answered that question incorrectly.’ I think maybe he misunderstood it, I mean you know, you have two questions — maybe misunderstood both of them.”
The CDC did not immediately respond to a request for comment from The Post about whether Redfield misspoke.
Trump called upon his coronavirus adviser Dr. Scott Atlas to confirm that Redfield was incorrect about the likely speed of vaccine distribution. Atlas said current plans would see production of 700 million vaccine doses by the end of March.
“There will be 700 million doses by end of Q1,” Atlas said.
Atlas said that “all the refrigerators that are necessary, everything is going to be a place for this,” meaning distribution delays won’t push public vaccination til summer.
Trump said at the press briefing that a vaccine would be available “to the general public immediately. When we go, we go. We’re not looking to say, ‘Gee in six months we’re going to start giving it to the general public.’ No, we want to go immediately.”
Trump rarely wears a mask and said “a vaccine is much more effective than the mask.”
Redfield told senators that “this face mask is more guaranteed to protect me than the vaccine.”
The CDC leader said about vaccine distribution: “There will be vaccine that will initially be available sometime between November and December, but very limited supply and will have to be prioritized … If you’re asking me when is it going to be generally available to the American public so we can begin to take advantage of vaccine to get back to our regular life, I think we’re probably looking at late second quarter, third quarter 2021.”
On Wednesday, the Defense Department and Department of Health and Human Services released plans for vaccine distribution amid hopes for positive results in October from clinical trials.
The Trump administration plan calls for rapid distribution of a vaccine free of cost and anticipates two doses administered 21 to 28 days apart. Health care workers and vulnerable people would be prioritized in the first wave.
Publications > Newsletter > Past Issues > October 2013 > Public Affairs
US Classifies R&D as an Investment
Catching up with the common viewpoint among scientists that funding research is an investment in the future, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), which is part of the US Department of Commerce, has reclassified research and development costs from an "expense" to an "investment" when calculating the country's Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Prior to 2013, expenditures on research and development were treated as intermediate inputs—neither true inputs or outputs—and not included in the calculation of GDP. The change was made to reflect international guidelines for national economic statistics. The reclassification is important to the scientific research community because it supports the notion that spending on research and development is a worthwhile expenditure, even in lean times.
Advocates for research hope that Congress will start to view R&D spending as an investment as it finalizes the federal budget for 2014 and must make even deeper cuts to agency budgets, unless it stops sequestration. In a letter sent to Congress over the summer, 165 university presidents and chancellors, representing all 50 states, called on the president and Congress to reverse the pending "innovation deficit." The letter points out that with more than half of the economic growth in the US since World War II attributable to innovation, the US economy is at risk if the current trajectory of decreased federal investment in research is allowed to continue.
More information on the reclassification can be found at http://1.usa.gov/17oEhFT.
Following on the heels of two reports that suggested ways the Department of Energy (DOE) could be more effective, Secretary Moniz announced over the summer that he was restructuring the Department. In an effort to integrate the work of basic science and applied research with technology demonstrations and deployment, the Office of the Under Secretary for Science will now be the Office of Under Secretary for Science and Energy and will manage the following departments:
Office of Science,
Office of Fossil Energy,
Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy,
Office of Nuclear Energy,
Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability,
Office of Indian Energy, and
Office of Technology Transfer Coordinator.
In addition, the majority of the DOE-managed national labs now fall under the Office of the Under Secretary for Science and Energy.
Currently, the position of Under Secretary for Science, who would lead this office, is vacant.
Track NIH Initiatives to Support
the Biomedical Workforce The NIH has launched a new website to make it easier to follow how the agency is implementing the 2012 recommendations focused on the biomedical research workforce, issued by an Advisory Committee to the NIH Director. The site will be kept up-to-date with policy notices, grant opportunities, and general information on progress related to seven initiatives the NIH has undertaken and plans to complete by 2015. The website can be found at http://biomedicalresearchworkforce.nih.gov/.
One of the initiatives you can read about on the page is the NIH's August announcement encouraging institutions to establish Individual Development Plans (IDPs) for all trainees funded by NIH grants, regardless of grant type. The NIH will be issuing guidance this month and is encouraging all institutions to begin reporting IDP information in October 2014. The information on IDPs can be found under the initiative "Improve graduate student and postdoctoral researcher training" on the website.
EDA-Hip More Instructional Videos | esy-concept
EDA-Hip More Instructional Videos
Videos: EDA-Hip Rationale
Introducing a new surgical technique into the OR is enhanced in case surgeons, nurses and administrators are well informed about the procedure. We present instructional course videos about the surgical applied anatomy and the step wise EDA-hip procedure. In addition, the EDA-hip is an ESY-concept procedure that aims to improve ergonomics for the team, quality of care for the patient and economics for the hospital. We share our experience about how the EDA-hip was introduced and the economic model for the hospital has become clear.
Videos: EDA-Hip Surgical Technique
The EDA-hip surgical procedure has been made very reproducible by simplifying all steps and thereby making the procedure more efficient in all aspects. The instrumentation has been rationalized to the minimum required to conduct the surgery safely. The procedure consists of 3 major parts: capsular exposure, capsular release and component insertion. All different steps of the procedure are shown in short detailed videos. Overviews of the different steps and the OR set-up can be found under 'EDA Hip team education'. These videos are also dedicated towards the nursing team.
Videos: EDA-Hip Advanced
The EDA-hip procedure is a comprehensive platform that allows conducting complex primary, extensile acetabular and femoral revisions. It is important for the surgeon to understand the surgical applied anatomy and stepwise extensile approaches in case of an intra-operative problem or during revision procedures.
Videos: EDA-Hip Team Education
The EDA-hip procedure specifically focusses on creating an optimal ergonomic working environment for the nursing team. The EDA-hip procedure is a team concept where the nursing team and the surgeons closely and interactively work together in order to optimize the efficiency, ergonomics and quality of care. The OR set-up, the surgical procedure and the OR break down has been made very systematic and reproducible. The educational videos aim to provide information about the most optimal OR set-up and instrumentation sequence. In addition, detailed videos about the different steps of the procedure with a specific focus on retractor sequence and retractor placement are shown. In order to better understand the full OR workflow, overview videos are also provided.
Official General Health Magazine page for women and men! Free advice to become more healthier, smarter, fashionable, confident and successful.
Primary Menu
Health
Exercise
Nutrition
Beauty
Lifestyle
Connect
Subscribe
Become a Blogger
Contact Us
Search
Search for:
Beauty
Top 5 Essential Oils for Allergies
Over the last 50 years, the rise in prevalence of allergic diseases and disorders has continued in the industrialized world. Allergic rhinitis, the medical term for hay fever and what’s behind the unpleasant seasonal allergy symptoms we all know so well, develops when the body’s immune system becomes sensitized and overreacts to something in the environment.
Today, 40 to 60 million Americans are affected by allergic rhinitis and the numbers continue to grow, especially in children. When left untreated, allergies can cause blocked and runny nose, sneezing, watery eyes, headaches and an impaired sense of smell — but this is in less severe cases. For some people, allergies can be life threatening, leading to inflammation and shortness of breath.
People who suffer from allergies are often told to avoid triggers, but that is nearly impossible when the seasons are changing and our immune systems are impaired by the food industry and environmental toxins. And some allergy meds are linked to dementia and other scary health effects, too. Thankfully, some powerful essential oils serve as a natural and safe way to treat the symptoms of allergies and boost our immune systems. These essential oils for allergies have the ability to chemically support the body and help it to overcome hypersensitivity.
How Do Essential Oils Fight Allergies?
An allergic reaction begins in the immune system. An allergen is a substance that tricks the immune system — making it think that the allergen is an invader. The immune system then overreacts to the allergen, which is really a harmless substance, and produces Immunoglobulin E antibodies. These antibodies travel to cells that release histamine and other chemicals, causing the allergic reaction.
The most common causes of an allergic reaction include:
Pollen
Dust
Mold
Insect stings
Animal dander
Food
Medications
Latex
These allergens will trigger symptoms in the nose, throat, lungs, ears, sinuses and lining of the stomach or on the skin. The question here still remains — if these common causes have been around for thousands of years, then why have the allergy rates increased in recent history?
One of the theories behind explaining the increase in allergies has to do with inflammation, the root of most diseases. The body responds in a certain way to an allergen because the immune system is in overdrive. When the body is already dealing with high inflammation, any allergen sets off an increased reaction. That means that when the body’s immune system is overworked and stressed, introducing an allergen sends the body into overreaction.
If the immune system and inflammation within the body was balanced, the reaction to the allergen would be normal; however, today these reactions are exaggerated and lead to the next unneeded allergic reaction.
One of the most amazing benefits of essential oils are their ability to fight inflammation and boost the immune system. Essential oils for allergies will help to detoxify the body and fight infections, bacteria, parasites, microorganisms and harmful toxins. They reduce the bodies susceptibility to outside sources and reduce the overreaction of the immune system when it is faced with a harmless intruder. Some exceptional essential oils even work to relieve respiratory conditions and increase sweat and urination — helping with the elimination of toxins.
Top 5 Essential Oils for Allergies
1. Peppermint Oil
Inhaling diffused peppermint oil can oftentimes immediately unclog the sinuses and offer relief to scratchy throats. Peppermint acts as an expectorant and provides relief for allergies, as well as colds, coughs, sinusitis, asthma and bronchitis. It has the power to discharge phlegm and reduce inflammation — a leading cause of allergic reactions.
A 2010 study published in the Journal of Ethnopharmacology investigated the effects of peppermint oil in the tracheal rings of rats. The results suggest that peppermint oil is a relaxant and exhibits antispasmodic activity, inhibiting contractions that causes you to cough. (1)
Another study published in the European Journal of Medical Research suggests that peppermint oil treatment has anti-inflammatory effects — reducing the symptoms of chronic inflammatory disorders such as allergic rhinitis and bronchial asthma. (2)
Remedy: Diffuse five drops of peppermint essential oil at home to unclog sinuses and treat a scratchy throat. This will also help to relax the nasal muscles, enabling the body to clear out mucus and allergens like pollen. To reduce inflammation, take 1–2 drops of pure peppermint essential oil internally once a day.
It can be added to a glass of water, cup of tea or smoothie. Peppermint oil can also be applied topically to the chest, back of neck and temples. For people with sensitive skin, it is best to dilute peppermint with coconut or jojoba oil before topical application.
2. Basil Oil
Basil essential oil reduces the inflammatory response of allergens. It also supports the adrenal glands, which are involved in producing over 50 hormones that drive almost every bodily function. Essentially, basil essential oil is helping your body to react appropriately to a threat by rushing blood to your brain, heart and muscles.
Basil oil also helps to detoxify the body of bacteria and viruses, while fighting inflammation, pain and fatigue. Studies prove that basil oil shows antimicrobial activity and can kill bacteria, yeast and mold that can lead to asthma and respiratory damage. (3, 4)
Remedy: To fight inflammation and regulate the overreaction of the immune system when faced with an allergen, take one drop of basil oil internally by adding it to soup, salad dressing or any other dish. To support the respiratory system, dilute 2–3 drops of basil oil with equal parts coconut oil and apply topically to the chest, back of neck and temples.
3. Eucalyptus Oil
Eucalyptus oil opens up the lungs and sinuses, thereby improving circulation and reducing symptoms of allergies. Studies have shown that it produces a cold sensation in the nose that helps to improve airflow. (5)
Eucalyptus contains citronellal, which has analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects; it also works as an expectorant, helping to cleanse the body of toxins and harmful microorganisms that are acting as allergens.
A 2011 study published in Evidence-Based Complementary and Alternative Medicine found that eucalyptus essential oil was an effective treatment for upper respiratory tract infections. Patients who were treated with eucalyptus spray reported an improvement in the severity of their most debilitating respiratory tract infection symptoms compared to participants in the placebo group. Improvement was defined as a reduction of sore throat, hoarseness or cough. (6)
Remedy: To treat respiratory issues associated with allergies, diffuse five drops of eucalyptus at home or apply it topically to the chest and temples. To clear the nasal passages and relieve congestion, pour a cup of boiling water into a bowl and add 1–2 drops of eucalyptus essential oil. Then place a towel over your head and inhale deeply for 5–10 minutes.
4. Lemon Oil
Lemon oil supports lymphatic system drainage and helps with overcoming respiratory conditions. Studies have shown that lemon essential oil inhibits the growth of bacteria and boosts the immune system. When diffused at home, lemon oil can kill bacteria and eliminate allergy triggers in the air. (7, 8)
Adding 1–2 drops of lemon essential oil to water also helps with pH balance. Lemon water improves immune function and detoxifies the body. It stimulates the liver and flushes out toxins that can lead to inflammation and an overreactive immune system. Lemon water also stimulates white blood cell production, which is vital for immune system function because it helps to protect the body.
Lemon essential oil can also be used to disinfect your home, without depending on alcohol or bleach. It will remove bacteria and pollutants from your kitchen, bedroom and bathroom — reducing the triggers inside of your home and keeping the air clean for you and your family. This can be especially helpful as the seasons change and allergens from outside are being brought into your house on shoes and clothes.
Remedy: Add lemon oil to your laundry detergent, mix a couple of drops with water and spray it on your couches, sheets, curtains and carpets.
5. Tea Tree Oil
This powerful oil can destroy airborne pathogens that cause allergies. Diffusing tea tree oil in the home will kill mold, bacteria and fungi. It is an antiseptic agent and it has anti-inflammatory properties. Tea tree oil can be applied to the skin to kill bacteria and microorganisms; it can also be used as a household cleaner to disinfect the home and eliminate allergens. (9)
A 2000 study conducted in Germany found that tea tree oil exhibits antimicrobial activity against a wide range of bacteria, yeasts and fungi. These microbes lead to inflammation and force our immune system to work on overdrive. (10)
Remedy: Use tea tree oil on skin rashes and hives or as a household cleaner. When using tea tree topically, add 2–3 drops to a clean cotton ball and gently apply to the area of concern. For people with sensitive skin, dilute tea tree with a carrier oil first, like coconut or jojoba oil.
How to Use Essential Oils for Allergies
Food Allergies — Take 1–2 drops of lemon or peppermint oil internally to relieve the symptoms of a food allergy. This will help to detoxify the body and eliminate the allergens through sweat or urination.
Skin Rash & Hives — Use tea tree or basil oil topically to treat skin rashes and hives. Add 2–3 drops to a cotton ball and apply to the affected area. Layering oils over the liver area is another way to treat skin irritations because it helps the liver to flush out toxins that burden the skin. Dilute 3–4 drops of tea tree oil with coconut oil and rub it into the liver area.
Seasonal Allergies — Disinfect your home with lemon and tea tree oil; this will eliminate triggers and cleanse the air and your furniture. Add 40 drops of lemon oil and 20 drops of tea tree oil to a 16-ounce spray bottle. Fill the bottle with pure water and a little bit of white vinegar and spray the mixture on any area in your home.
To reduce respiratory issues associated with seasonal allergies, try my Homemade Vapor Rub; it delivers a soothing feeling that will open up the airways and make it easier to breathe.
Allergy Blend — Combine 2–3 drops of peppermint, eucalyptus and lavender oil with one teaspoon of coconut oil and massage the mixture into the temples, behind the ears and into the bottoms of the feet.
Possible Side Effects
When using these special essential oil for allergies, I don’t recommend that you take tea tree oil internally; it’s best to use tea tree aromatically or topically. When using any of these oils topically, dilute with a carrier oil, especially when using on sensitive skin or one sensitive areas, like under the eyes or on the neck.
When using essential oils internally, a little goes a long way. Only consume 1–2 drops a day for one month. Then take a two-week break and start the treatment again.
What do you think about this article? Please share the article and let us know your comment.
Source: draxe
July 7, 2022 -Apple, apples, bikini, Bodybuilder, bodybuilding, cardio, Cardiovascular, cleaneating, diet, doctor, eatclean, essentialoils, Exercise, fatburner, food, gainmuscle, ghm, gym, healthcare, healthychoices, healthyfood, healthylife, hearthealth, inspiration, ketodiet, looseweight, love, motivation, muscle, musclemass, Nutrient, Nutrition, Nutritionist, Paleo, paleodiet, Recipe, shape, vegan, Vegetarian, weightloss, workout, yoga
Post navigation
Previous Previous post: 5 Best At-Home Laser Hair Removal Devices 2022
Next Next post: 11 Signs You’re In A ‘Situationship’
The information on this site has been included in good faith, and is for general purposes only. It should not be relied upon for any specific purpose, and no warranty or liability is given as regards to its accuracy or completeness. Fair use applies. © GHM
Most people will lose their hair after chemotherapy treatment but it usually grows back within a few months.
Your scalp will need to be covered by either a hat or scarf to prevent losing heat in the winter and getting sunburnt in the summer. If you would prefer to wear a wig, your hospital should have a scheme in place to provide one for free.
Some people take the opportunity to experiment with new hairstyles they have not dared to try before. If you have long hair, you may want to try out some shorter styles before treatment starts.
Look Good, Feel Better provide women undergoing cancer treatment with skincare and make up advice through free workshops. The Little Princess Trust and the Teenage Cancer Trust’s Hair 4 U provide free wigs for young people who have lost their hair following treatment. Most hospitals also have their own wig service, too.

As a requirement of active publicity, the transparent operation of any public institution entails making available to citizens relevant information about its organisation, financial and budgetary management, governing regulations and details of its activity. The aim of this exercise is to enable evaluation of its performance and safeguard the responsible exercise of power.
For this reason we endeavour to publish as much information as possible and make it easily accessible. In accordance with Catalan law 19/2014, of 29 December, on transparency, access to public information and good governance, we ensure the information is readily available with no limitations other than those provided by law. So we ask you to check the data on this portal and other sections of the website to confirm you are able to locate the material you would like to see.
You are here: Scientific Experts > Sweden > National Veterinary Institute > Persson Waller > K Persson Waller
Cytokines in mammary lymph and milk during endotoxin-induced bovine mastitis
Department of Ruminant and Porcine Diseases, National Veterinary Institute, SE 751 89, Uppsala, Sweden
Res Vet Sci 74:31-6. 2003
Intramammary infusion of beta1,3-glucan for prevention and treatment of Staphylococcus aureus mastitis
Department of Ruminant and Porcine Diseases, National Veterinary Institute, SE 751 89 Uppsala, Sweden
J Vet Med B Infect Dis Vet Public Health 50:121-7. 2003
An improved method to culture Staphylococcus aureus from bovine milk
K Artursson
J Dairy Sci 93:1534-8. 2010
A Capurro
National Veterinary Institute, SE 75189 Uppsala, Sweden
J Dairy Sci 93:180-91. 2010
Changes in blood and milk lymphocyte sub-populations during acute and chronic phases of Staphylococcus aureus induced bovine mastitis
U Grönlund
Department of Clinical Sciences, Division of Comparative Reproduction, Obstetrics and Udder Health, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine and Animal Sciences, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, P O Box 7039, Uppsala, Sweden
Res Vet Sci 80:147-54. 2006
Management practices associated with udder health of first-parity dairy cows in early lactation
Prev Vet Med 88:138-49. 2009
Microbial aetiology of acute clinical mastitis and agent-specific risk factors
H Ericsson Unnerstad
Vet Microbiol 137:90-7. 2009
Supplementation of RRR-alpha-tocopheryl acetate to periparturient dairy cows in commercial herds with high mastitis incidence
Department of Pigs, Poultry and Ruminants, National Veterinary Institute, SE 751 89 Uppsala, Sweden
J Dairy Sci 90:3640-6. 2007
Bovine subclinical mastitis caused by different types of coagulase-negative staphylococci
B M Thorberg
Department of Biomedical Sciences and Veterinary Public Health, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, SE 75007 Uppsala, Sweden
J Dairy Sci 92:4962-70. 2009
Milk leakage--an increased risk in automatic milking systems
J Dairy Sci 86:3488-97. 2003
K Holtenius
K Svennersten-Sjaunja
M O Odensten
A Johannisson
C Gånheim
M Nilsson-Ost
T Ekman
P Ohagen
..The results indicate a primary role for IL-8 in the recruitment of neutrophils into the gland, and suggest that IL-1beta and TNF-alpha are not necessary for IL-8 production and release in response to endotoxin...
..To further evaluate a possible preventive effect of beta1,3-glucan infusion at drying off more studies are needed involving a larger number of animals...
..The improved method may be especially useful for detection of low concentrations of Staph. aureus in milk; for example, when screening herds for Staph. aureus...
..aureus. The results contribute new knowledge necessary to improve strategies for udder health control in herds...
..The results indicate that different control measures must be taken depending on the nature of the udder health problem...
..Isolation of S. aureus was associated with tie stalls, and A. pyogenes with low yielding cows and teat lesions. S. dysgalactiae infections were also associated with teat lesions...
..A significant effect of supplementation was observed only for stillbirth or calf death within 24 h after birth, which was significantly lower in the supplemented group. The reasons for this finding require further study...
..In cows with subclinical mastitis, S. epidermidis IMI were mainly found in multiparous cows, whereas S. chromogenes IMI were mainly found in primiparous cows...
..Milk flow rate was higher in quarters leaking milk than in other quarters. Strategies to reduce milk leakage in AMS may be important to minimize potential risks of udder disease...
Sensitivity and specificity of PCR analysis and bacteriological culture of milk samples for identification of intramammary infections in dairy cows using latent class analysis
Department of Animal Health and Antimicrobial Strategies, National Veterinary Institute, 751 89, Uppsala, Sweden Electronic address
Prev Vet Med 135:123-131. 2016
..Hence, extra caution is needed when decisions about treatment of IMI are based on PCR...
Changes in peripheral blood leucocyte counts and subpopulations after experimental infection with BVDV and/or Mannheimia haemolytica
Department of Clinical Sciences, Division of Comparative Reproduction, Obstetrics and Udder Health, PO Box 7054, Sweden
J Vet Med B Infect Dis Vet Public Health 52:380-5. 2005
Metabolic parameters and blood leukocyte profiles in cows from herds with high or low mastitis incidence
Department of Large Animal Clinical Sciences, Box 7018, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, Uppsala SE 750 07, Sweden
Vet J 168:65-73. 2004
..The results suggest that there were differences in the metabolism and immune status between herds with high or low yearly mastitis treatment incidence indicating an increased metabolic stress in HMI cows...
Adjuvant effect of ginseng extracts on the immune responses to immunisation against Staphylococcus aureus in dairy cattle
Department of Veterinary Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 310029, China
Vet Immunol Immunopathol 91:29-37. 2003
..aureus in dairy cattle. Field trials are warranted to test the ability of GS and R(b1) to enhance the efficacy of mastitis vaccines in protection against intramammary infections...
Metabolism and udder health at dry-off in cows of different breeds and production levels
Department of Animal Nutrition and Management, Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, SE 753 23 Uppsala, Sweden
J Dairy Sci 90:1417-28. 2007
..A prolonged CI did not facilitate a rapid decrease in milk production. The SRB and SH breeds responded equally in decreasing the milk production during DO, but the SRB breed had lower somatic cell counts...
