F10NG - Clinical: Factor X Deficiency, F10 Gene, Next-Generation Sequencing, Varies
Test ID: F10NG
Factor X Deficiency, F10 Gene, Next-Generation Sequencing, Varies
Factor X (FX) deficiency (F10D) is a bleeding diathesis of variable severity that may appear at any age, although more severely affected patients, who typically haveFX activity less than 1%, present early in life. Symptoms include umbilical stump bleeding, intracranial hemorrhage, gastrointestinal bleeding, joint bleeds, and hematomas. The most severe clinical symptoms are uncommon in a patient with FX activity levels greater than 2%. Regardless of disease severity, the most common bleeding symptom is nose bleeds. Menorrhagia occurs in more than half of women with F10D but miscarriages are not common. Antepartum and postpartum hemorrhage are reportedly common in women with F10D and also has been reported in heterozygous females.
F10D is estimated to affect 1 in 1,000,000 people. If genetic, F10D is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. Both males and females may be affected.
Hereditary F10D results from defects in the concentration or function of coagulation FX, a vitamin-K dependent protein synthesized in the liver that is essential for stopping blood loss after injury. FX circulates in blood plasma as an inactive zymogen. It is activated by either the intrinsic or extrinsic pathway and is the most important activator of prothrombin, which has multiple roles in the hemostatic response to injury.
The F10 gene produces coagulation FX. Alterations in the F10 gene can interfere with the production of coagulation FX, leading to lower levels of the factor in blood (type I F10D) or dysfunctional factor protein that is produced in normal amounts (type II F10D). The bleeding tendency in F10D is variable and does not always correlate with circulating FX antigen levels. In general, however, lower FX activity levels predict a higher risk for bleeding. FX activity of less than 1% of normal is associated with severe F10D, activity of 1% to 5% of normal is associated with moderate disease, and a FX activity of 6% to 10% is associated with mild disease. Of note, normal, full-term newborn infants or healthy premature infants may have decreased levels (greater than or equal to 15% to 20% of normal), which may not reach adult levels for greater than or equal to 180 days after birth.
Acquired deficiency of FX is more common than hereditary F10D. Causes of acquired (non-genetic) F10D that should be excluded prior to genetic testing include liver disease, warfarin therapy, vitamin K deficiency, and (rarely) inhibitors. Acquired isolated F10D is seen in 6% to 14% of individuals with primary amyloidosis. Other conditions associated with acquired isolated F10D include underlying malignancy, especially acute myeloid leukemia, and respiratory infection. Conditions associated with acquired F10D should be considered prior to genetic testing.
Some individuals may have a mutation that is not identified by the methods performed. The absence of a mutation, therefore, does not eliminate the possibility of factor X deficiency (F10D) or a related disorder. This assay does not distinguish between germline and somatic alterations, particularly with variant allele frequencies (VAF) significantly lower than 50%. Test results should be interpreted in context of clinical findings, family history, and other laboratory data. Misinterpretation of results may occur if the information provided is inaccurate or incomplete.
1. Brown DL, Kouides PA: Diagnosis and treatment of inherited factor X deficiency. Haemophilia 2008;14(6):1176-1182
2. Karimi M, Menegatti M, Afrasiable A, et al: Phenotype and genotype report on homozygous and heterozygous patient with congenital factor X deficiency. Haematologica 2008;93(6):934-938
3. Lee G, Duan-Porter W, Metjian AD: Acquired, non-amyloid related factor X deficiency: review of the literature. Haemophilia 2012;18(5):655-663
4. Mumford AD, Ackroyd S, Alikhan R, et al: Guidelines for the diagnosis and management of the rare coagulation disorders: a United Kingdon Haemophilia Centre Doctors' Organization guidelines on behalf of the British Committee for Standards in Haematology. Br J Haematol 2014;167(3):304-326
5. Nance D, Josephson NC, Paulyson-Nunez K, et al: Factor X deficiency and pregnancy: preconception counseling and therapeutic options. Haemophilia 2012;18(3):e277-285
6. Palla R, Peyvandi F, Shapiro AD: Rare bleeding disorders: diagnosis and treatment. Blood 2015;125(13):2052-2061
People In the News: Feb 6, 2009 | Genomeweb
NEW YORK (GenomeWeb News) - Gen-Probe has tapped Eric Lai to be senior VP of research and development. Lai previously was VP of pharmacogenetics experimental project coordination and analysis at GlaxoSmithKline. He also served at GSK as VP of discovery and pipeline genetics.
Qiagen has hired Gisela Orth, who has been involved in human resources for nearly twenty years, to serve as VP of global HR.
Clemson University has named Keith Murphy to serve as acting director of the Clemson University Genomics Institute. Murphy also is chair of the school's genetics and biochemistry department, and his research focus is on dog genetics.
Jorge Leon has joined the scientific advisory board at ParagonDx. Leon was a co-founder of the Molecular Diagnostics and Applied Genomics business at Quest Diagnostics, and he served as director of Molecular Diagnostics, senior director of biotechnology, and VP of Applied Genomics.
Gary Gilliland has taken on two posts at Merck, including of VP of Merck Research Laboratories and franchise head of Oncology. Gilliland is a Harvard Medical School professor, where he specializes in stem cells and regenerative biology. He also is an investigator of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, and director for the Leukemia Program at the Dana Farber/Harvard Medical Cancer Center, and director of the Cancer Stem Cell Program at the Harvard Stem Cell Institute.
He will replace Stephen Friend, who plans to leave the company to pursue an effort to build open access integrative bionetworks, or complex databases, around the world in order to accelerate disease studies.
Fernando Martinez will serve as interim director of the BIO5 Institute at the University of Arizona as of next week. Martinez is a principal investigator for the National Institutes of Health's National Children's Study, and he collaborates with two initiatives, the Human Genes, and Environment Research Traineeship and with researchers at the Arizona Genomics Institute and Arizona Research Laboratories.
Gentel Biosciences has promoted Randal Durnell to be executive VP and COO, and it has hired Dan Clutter to be VP of commercial development. Durnell has been at Gentel serving as VP of commercial operations for over a year, and Clutter previously was involved in sales, marketing, and business development at PerkinElmer, Invitrogen, Roche, Celera, PanVera, Asterand, and NimbleGen.
Getting babies to sleep well may halve their pre-school obesity risk - St Helens Reporter
Getting babies to sleep well may halve their pre-school obesity risk
Encouraging babies to self-settle when they are tired could prove the key to keeping them slim in their pre-school years
Published: 12:56 Friday 19 May 2017
Getting babies to sleep well at night may halve their risk of obesity as toddlers, research suggests.
Encouraging babies to self-settle when they are tired could prove the key to keeping them slim in their pre-school years, according to a new study.
The research, presented at the European Congress on Obesity in Porto, Portugal, followed 802 families for a period of five years.
At the start of the study, they were randomly split into four groups, with the first receiving usual advice on the care of a baby.
The second group was given advice on food, activity and breastfeeding (FAB), including eight specific visits from a health professional focused on areas such as healthy weaning, feeding according to the child's appetite, access to a breastfeeding consultant and undertaking activities as a family.
The third group was the sleep intervention group. Parents received advice even before their baby was born on what constitutes good sleep.
When their babies were aged three weeks, parents also received a visit from a health professional who gave key advice on preventing sleep problems.
This included working out when a baby was tired, putting the baby down in a quiet, dark room while they were still drowsy and awake, no bed-sharing and not doing things such as feeding to sleep or patting to sleep.
After six months, parents in this group were asked if they needed extra support to help their baby sleep well. A quarter requested extra help.
These parents were advised to put their tired baby down in a slightly dark, quiet room which also had an extra bed for an adult.
The parent was then told to noisily go to bed to reassure the baby that they were in the same room, and pretend to go to sleep, but to try not to react to any crying.
The fourth group in the study had a combination of FAB and sleep intervention.
The results showed that aged two, 4.5% of children were obese in the sleep intervention group - half the proportion in the control and FAB groups.
These lower obesity rates were also similar at age three-and-a-half but had faded away by five years of age.
Professor Barry Taylor, dean of the Dunedin School of Medicine at the University of Otago in New Zealand, who led the study, said the effect on obesity of sleep intervention in the first year of life remained strong for at least the first three-and-a-half years.
"A lot of research has shown that a short sleep duration in children is associated with becoming obese, but ours is probably the biggest trial to date showing an effect of a sleep intervention affecting how big children grow," he said.
"We know that when children, and even adults, are tired, it causes you to eat differently.
"You look for different types of food, it affects your appetite, and you go much more for high carbohydrate foods.
"There is also an effect on your hormones from being sleep deprived.
"Some studies have also shown it changes how much food you eat and there is also an effect on how you feel.
"It may be that some of the solutions to the obesity epidemic are actually some of the most obvious things like getting more sleep."
The research also showed that, compared to the control group, FAB (the sort of conventional advice given by health professionals) made no difference to obesity levels at aged two or three-and-a-half years.
By age five, these children were more overweight than those who did not get the FAB intervention.
Asked about the effects of sleep-training wearing off after five years, Prof Taylor said the study looked at a small sleep intervention in a very obesogenic environment.
He said future research would look at more intense or longer sleep interventions to see if the effects last longer.
Hazlehurst, MS. drug rehabilitation and alcohol rehab programs
Drug Rehab and Treatment Centers Information Hazlehurst, Mississippi
Looking for Drug Rehab and treatment centers in Hazlehurst, Mississippi?
There are several drug rehab facilities options available to folks residing in the Hazlehurst area. It is important to understand each one of the types of rehab choices that exist in Hazlehurst, AB., so that you can pick the appropriate treatment approach for yourself or someone you care about. Selecting the most appropriate drug and alcohol treatment facility in Hazlehurst is the central element in the treatment of substance abuse, addiction and alcoholism. This info will assist you to understand your various rehabilitation options allowing you to have the highest chance of an effective final result.
Let's have a look at the many drug and alcohol rehabilitation centers in Hazlehurst, Mississippi options that coincide with the circumstances of the individual searching for treatment.
Inpatient drug and alcohol treatment in Hazlehurst, AB. is really a rehabilitation option ideal for many who need medical treatment during rehabilitation or clients with substantial drug use histories. People can develop mental and physical dependence to drugs even after a short period of time, so inpatient alcohol and drug rehab in Hazlehurst is regarded as the most beneficial rehab option in nearly all instances. As a result of substance abuse and addiction, men and women will most likely struggle to make a full recovery using the limited solutions available from outpatient rehabilitation centers in Hazlehurst, Mississippi where drugs and alcohol are still easily accessible when they depart the outpatient facility. In addition, men and women in treatment who take part in outpatient treatment instead of inpatient drug and alcohol rehabilitation in Hazlehurst continue to be vulnerable to detrimental relationships and conditions which might compromise their recovery process. If a person lives with an abusive companion or continues to maintain relationships which entail drug use, any rehabilitation endeavours in outpatient rehab are done in vain. For this reason in-patient alcohol and drug rehab in Hazlehurst, AB. will produce more fruitful results that can prove lasting in contrast to an outpatient drug rehab program where benefits are often very limited and short-lived.
In Hazlehurst there is both short-term and long-term inpatient alcohol and drug rehab. Short-term is a 30-day program, while long-term inpatient drug treatment in Hazlehurst, Mississippi is much more prolonged and rehabilitation lasts 90-120 days on average. It becomes an excellent environment for clients because it is a safe and secure drug-free setting where they can recover both mentally and physically without interruptions. Ideally, women and men proceed within a long-term in-patient drug and alcohol rehab program in Hazlehurst for the maximum time frame allowed, in order to deal with anything that might cut across their sobriety when they depart rehab. Because of the fact that detoxing and becoming physically stabilized can require 2-3 weeks alone, the 3-6 months in long-term in-patient drug and alcohol rehab in Hazlehurst is going to be time wisely spent and much more effective than short-term centers.
The main component of all if you or someone you love has a substance abuse or addiction issue is to get it resolved right away, make calls and seek advice from experienced addiction professionals and get an evaluation and treatment options to ensure the greatest potential for a full recovery.
The following are a combination of 2 local drug rehab listings and 4 nearby drug rehab listings for Hazlehurst, Mississippi:
(Hazlehurst is from Hazlehurst)
Contact Region 8 Mental Health Services, by calling 601-894-2018.
(Brookhaven is 17.3 from Hazlehurst)
(Byram is 30.2 from Hazlehurst)
Drug and Alcohol Rehab, Drug And Alcohol Detox Programs, Halfway Houses, Long Term Drug Rehab Programs, Drug Rehabs For Women, Drug Treatment Centers For Men
Cerebral Palsy (CP) - Care 4 Cads Cerebral Palsy (CP) - Care 4 Cads
CP is usually caused by brain damage that occurs before or during a child's birth, or during the first 3 to 5 years of a child's life. There is no cure for CP, but treatment, therapy, special equipment, and, in some cases, surgery can help a child who is living with the condition.
Cerebral palsy is one of the most common congenital (existing before birth or at birth) disorders of childhood.
The exact causes of most cases of CP are unknown, but many are the result of problems during pregnancy in which the brain is either damaged or doesn't develop normally. This can be due to infections, maternal health problems, or something else that interferes with normal brain development. Problems during labor and delivery can cause CP in some cases.
In collaboration between Orlando and Potent a series of educational DVD’s have been commissioned. This is the first of the series and is presented by Dr Sandra L Wheatley.
In Be Gone Baby Blues the facts about postnatal illness are outlined, focusing upon the baby blues and postnatal depression. Women who have survived postnatal illness talk honestly about their experiences. This DVD will be ideal for use by those who have contact with women who are pregnant or who have recently become a mother. To accompany the video will be a brief booklet describing the symptoms to look out for, how to assess those feelings and monitor recovery (with the Four Weekly Wheatley questionnaire), and what she and those close to her can be doing day-to-day to help her get well and stay well.
The second DVD in the series will be for health professionals in contact with expectant or new mothers, in particular, midwives and health visitors. The information will complement that required by the nursing curriculums for basic knowledge about the baby blues, postnatal depression and puerperal psychosis.
To obtain samples of the information pack about the series and to enquire about participating in the second DVD for Health Professionals contact BeGoneBabyBlues@potentpsychology.com
Chinese eye hospital group completes acquisition of Spanish Clinica Baviera - Xinhua | English.news.cn
Chinese eye hospital group completes acquisition of Spanish Clinica Baviera
Source: Xinhua| 2017-09-01 02:34:11|Editor: Zhou Xin
MADRID, Aug. 31 (Xinhua) -- The ceremony to mark the acquisition of the Clinica Baviera by the Chinese Aier Eye Hospital group was held in the Spanish capital city of Madrid on Thursday.
The deal, which is thought to be worth around 152 million euros (180.77 million U.S. dollars), opens the door for the Chinese healthcare provider, which is now the world's biggest eye care service group, into the European market allowing them to cover a total population of over 2 billion.
It is the biggest merger ever in the international eye industry and a historic moment for the global ophthalmic industry.
and the ceremony was attended by members of the Chinese and Spanish business communities.
The agreement gives Aier Eye an "absolute controlling stake in Baviera, with close to 87 percent" of its shares and "two thirds" of the seats on the Board of Directors, although Baviera will retain its core management and medical team.
Clinica Baviera is the leading eye medical chain in Europe with 76 centers, while Aier Eye Hospital Group, is the largest such group in China with 190 specialized eye hospitals in 30 provinces and has carried out almost 30 million procedures.
"The combination of Asia's leading Aier Eye with Clinica Baviera... will work together to create one of the world's largest ophthalmic platforms, which will not only build up complementary advantages in advanced ophthalmic diagnosis and treatment technologies, quality experience, human resources and other aspects, but also promote mutual improvement in the network and services," said Aier Eye Hospital Group Chairman Chen Bang at the ceremony.
He also highlighted that the accord was "the first time in the development history of China's medical and health sector to export China's modern medical services to the European market in professional and systematic manner," adding it would "greatly enhance the international influence of China's medical services."
For Clinica Baviera's CEO, Eduardo Baviera, the agreement provides "an opportunity for Clinica Baviera to boost market and service capabilities, which will further expand the diagnosis and treatment coverage of Clinica Baviera and Aier Eye and complementary advantages in markets, diagnosis and treatment technologies."
My husband and I have a large collection of resin tombstones, which we display in our front yard every October. We haven't added to the collection the last two years, because all the tombstones in the stores are either made of polystyrene or are covered in glitter. Meanwhile, Christmas is creeping onto our turf.

The veterinary clinic or hospital below is the closest participating location to the zip code you entered. Please contact them directly in the event your horse develops a fever to arrange a visit and screening for the clinical trial.
Remember, horses who participate in this study may receive the study drug, examinations, and diagnostic laboratory work required for the study at no charge. The cost of treatment for the cause of the fever may be covered as part of the clinical trial. If this is not your regular veterinarian, they can communicate with your horse’s veterinarian during the clinical trial.
Horses cannot be treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs – NSAIDs (such as phenylbutazone or flunixin meglumine), corticosteroids (such as dexamethasone or triamcinolone), antibiotics (such as trimethoprim sulfa or penicillin), sedatives (such as xylazine or detomidine), or chlorpromazine prior to starting, or during, the trial.

The thermal efficiency of the hot water atmospheric boiler for sale as an important indicator of good or bad quality, the level of thermal efficiency of the boiler is the users are most concerned about. After the low nitrogen gas boiler after the transformation, by the addition of premix, FGR flue gas recirculation and other advanced combustion technology, fuel combustion in the combustion chamber, the boiler thermal efficiency can reach 108% direct savings for businesses invest a lot of fuel cost.
The horizontal steam hot water atmospheric boiler for sale is compact in structure, small in size and economical in capital construction, easy to install, connected with valves, water, electricity and piping can be operated. Stable operation, convenient adjustment, unique anti-leakage air design, long time to seal fire.
Boiler combustion control means cleaner laboratory with international advanced level, providing a basis for disciplinary heat pipe, clean-burning and other high-tech research platform; companies were and Tsinghua University, Xi'an Jiaotong University, Zhengzhou University made a research on the butt fruitful results, the establishment of academician workstation will also accelerate the development of research projects in progress. Academician work to build cooperation, a new attempt is made to fast-party innovation and the experts and scholars. Chen Yuanshi in the field of heat transfer possession international cutting-edge technology, low nitrogen emissions and thermal efficiency levels will help to effectively integrate fast hot water atmospheric boiler for sale products, making deep plowing in the field of two decades of clean-burning party has once again usher in faster technological breakthroughs opportunity for development, so that the right to speak technology Group in the boiler industry can be long-term stability.
Sorafenib plus Hycamtin Combo Prolongs Survival in Platinum-resistant Ovarian Cancer, Phase 2 Trial Shows - BioNewsFeeds
Adding sorafenib, an anti-cancer oral medicine, to Hycamtin (topotecan) chemotherapy slows the time to disease progression or death in women with platinum-resistant ovarian cancer, a Phase 2 trial shows.
The trial showed that the combo therapy prolonged median progression-free survival almost seven months, compared to Hycamtin alone.
The study, "Sorafenib plus topotecan versus placebo plus topotecan for platinum-resistant ovarian cancer (TRIAS): a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, phase 2 trial," was published in the journal The Lancet Oncology.
Sorafenib (produced by Bayer under the brand name Nexavar) is a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved oral treatment for liver, kidney, and thyroid cancer. The compound is an antiangiogenic agent, one that inhibits blood vessels' growth, reducing blood flow to the tumor and blocking tumor cell proliferation.
Similarly to other classes of antiangiogenic agents, once-daily sorafenib showed anti-tumor activity in preclinical models of ovarian cancer. However, to date, clinical trials testing the therapy revealed only a moderate efficacy, either alone or in combination with chemotherapy.
Novartis' Hycamtin is a chemotherapy approved in the United States and Europe for advanced ovarian cancer. Its efficacy was seen to parallel other chemotherapies, including paclitaxel or pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD), for platinum-resistant ovarian cancer; and a conventional 5-day treatment was proven as effective as a weekly schedule.
Based on such knowledge, researchers conducted the TRIAS Phase 2 study (NCT01047891) to assess the safety and efficacy of a combo treatment with 5-day Hycamtin plus oral sorafenib, followed by sorafenib alone as a maintenance therapy, in women who failed to respond or whose cancer returned after platinum chemotherapy.
The trial was a placebo-controlled double-blind study conducted at 20 sites in Germany.
The study included 172 women with ovarian, peritoneal, or fallopian tube cancers whose tumors failed to respond or came back after up to three prior lines of therapy, including platinum-containing medicines.
Patients were randomly assigned to receive 5-day intravenous infusions of Hycamtin followed by either oral sorafenib 400 mg (83 patients) or placebo (89 patients) twice daily on days 6–15, repeated every 21 days for six cycles. Researchers choose this type of scheduling to reduce toxicity caused by combining sorafenib with chemotherapy.
Such an induction regimen was followed by daily maintenance with sorafenib alone or a placebo for up to one year in patients without progression.
Hycamtin treatment was disclosed to all participants ,while investigators and patients were blinded for sorafenib or placebo.
More than half of the patients in the sorafenib group (57%) and in the placebo group (53%) completed the six chemotherapy cycles, while the rest discontinued treatment, primarily due to patient request or toxicity (sorafenib group) and disease progression (placebo group).
After completing chemotherapy, 42% of patients in the sorafenib group and 38% in the placebo group received maintenance therapy for a median 1.6 and 1.4 months, respectively.
Combo therapy with Hycamtin and sorafenib significantly prolonged progression-free survival, or the time between the first treatment cycle and disease progression or death. On this regimen, the median progression-free survival was 6.7 months; with placebo, 4.4 months.
Overall survival was also improved with the combo therapy. Median survival extended from 10.1 months in the placebo group to 17.1 months in the combination treatment.
Even patients who were receiving the third or fourth line of treatment seemed to derive an overall survival benefit, researchers said.
In addition, the percentage of patients who saw their tumor shrink, or objective response, was significantly higher for those on sorafenib (35%) than on placebo (18%).
The frequency of serious adverse events was similar with sorafenib (59%) and placebo (51%). The most common were abdominal pain, shortness of breath, ileus (lack of movement in the bowel), thrombocytopenia (low platelet count), neutropenia, and leukopenia (low white blood cell count).
However, compared with placebo, the combo therapy was associated with increased incidences of severe hand-foot skin reaction (13% vs. 0%) and moderate hair loss (29% vs. 13%), but did not seem to negatively affect patient-reported quality of life.
Adverse events resulted in the death of four patients (5%) in the sorafenib group and seven (8%) in the placebo group.
Overall, these findings "support the pivotal role of antiangiogenic strategies for ovarian cancer and perhaps strengthen the rationale for assessing maintenance approaches in platinum-resistant ovarian cancer," the researchers said.
The post Sorafenib plus Hycamtin Combo Prolongs Survival in Platinum-resistant Ovarian Cancer, Phase 2 Trial Shows appeared first on Ovarian Cancer News Today.
Home >Institut Pasteur >Press Room >Fact sheets >Leptospirosis Leptospirosis
Leptospirosis is caused by the bacterium Leptospira interrogans senso lato. This bacterium survives well in the outside environment (freshwater, muddy soil, etc.), which facilitates contamination.
The incubation period is from 4 to 14 days. This disease has a number of clinical forms, ranging from flu-like syndrome to multi-organ involvement with hemorrhagic syndrome. In its moderate form, the disease starts with high fever and shivering, headache, muscle pain and generalized joint pain. It may go on to affect the kidneys, liver, meninges or lungs. There are no distinctive symptoms, but conjunctival jaundice and myalgia are particularly common. Serious forms (hemorrhagic jaundice or Weil's disease) bring acute kidney failure, neurological disorders (seizures, coma) and pulmonary and gastrointestinal hemorrhaging with varying degrees of severity. Convalescence is lengthy, but usually without sequelae. Late ocular complications (uveitis, keratitis) may occur.
A diagnosis can be confirmed by culture or – even more effectively – by gene amplification during the first week after the onset of high fever, or by serology from the second week of the disease onwards.
This is a disease seen throughout the world, mainly in tropical regions. In mainland France it affects around 300 people annually, which indicates an annual incidence of 0.4 to 0.5 per 100,000 inhabitants. The incidence is from 100 to 1000 times higher in tropical regions, such as the French overseas collectivities or many Latin American and Southeast Asian countries. The number of serious cases of leptospirosis seen annually throughout the world is estimated at over one million, with a case fatality rate above 10%. The disease has a clear seasonal pattern, with summer and autumn peaks linked to hot weather and rainfall.
The serious forms require hospitalization. Treatment is based on intensive care. Early administration of antibiotics (amoxicillin, cephalosporin and cyclins) reduces the risk of complications, shortens disease progression, relieves symptoms and limits renal damage. In terms of prevention, collective measures to control rat populations and effluents from factory farming systems and to drain flooded areas might be effective but are difficult to implement. A monovalent human vaccine is available in France, solely to workers with a high level of exposure (sewage workers and refuse collectors). A bivalent vaccine for dogs is widely used in France.
Fundamental research into Leptospira is being undertaken by the Biology of Spirochetes Unit, which also includes the National Reference Center for Leptospirosis and FAO/WHO Collaborating Center for Epidemiology of Leptospirosis. A number of leptospiral identification methods have been developed. Epidemiological surveys have also been undertaken in endemic regions (the island of Mayotte, the Antilles, etc.). Lastly, scientists at the Institut Pasteur have also identified several virulence factors in the bacterium responsible for this disease (see the press release of July 13, 2007).
