services disability acquired brain injury what office acquired brain injury
Search found 6 items for "services disability acquired brain injury what office acquired brain injury"
Español What is an Acquired Brain Injury? An acquired brain injury is brain damage caused by ...
Texas Celebrates Brain Injury Resources, Survivors
The Texas Health and Human Services Commission's Office of Acquired Brain Injury, Office of Disability Prevention for Children, and Comprehensive ...
Learn about the new Office of Disability Prevention for Children, which focuses on ... are preventable. That's why the Texas Health and Human Services system created the Office of Disability Prevention ... Program, Early Childhood Intervention and the Office of Acquired Brain Injury will now work hand in hand with ODPC to ...
... In this video, you will learn the differences between acquired and traumatic brain injuries, signs and symptoms, ... In this video you will learn about some of the government services available at the federal and state level, an ... journey. Understanding Stroke The fifth leading cause of disability in the United States is stroke — a type of ...
Español Texas Health and Human Services provides a variety of programs to help people who ... through programs for people who have a medical or physical disability. Most long-term care programs require you have ... website . To learn more, contact the Office of Acquired Brain Injury at 512-706-7191 or by email . ...
I would honestly take her to the vets to get this checked rather than trying to fix it yourself, especially if there is swelling and discharge as this could indicate a possible infection which won't clear up without medication unfortunately. Not only that, if it is sore, she might well need some pain relief too. You can definitely bathe the area with a saline solution but it wouldn't be fair to not seek treatment if she's in discomfort.
I agree it’s by far the best thing to take her to the vet & get it checked as soon as you can, there’s little you can do & it may clear up very quickly with a course of antibiotics if that’s what the vet prescribes rather than giving it time to get worse while you wait.
I wouldn’t worry about the stress of a car journey & going to the vets, make sure you have a carrier with some substrate in so your ham can burrow down during the journey. Vets visits can be stressful for some hams but a bit of stress is better than being unwell & in pain.
Ok, I was just hoping to hear that others had had the similar issues and it hadn't been much of a problem.
ANIMAL FACILITY – Biochemistry and Molecular and Structural Biology
Georgy Mikhaylov, Head of Animal facility, georgy.mikhaylov@ijs.si
Location: B19, Building B, Jozef Stefan Institute
In the Animal facility we are housing several lines of laboratory mice, including transgene lines. A transgene model of murine breast cancer enables us to investigate the progression of disease and the efficacy of potential treatments, while knock-out models of specific proteins elucidate its role in physiological and pathological processes.
One of the main focuses of our experiments is in vivo imaging of laboratory mice. In 2014, we have established a laboratory for noninvasive in vivo imaging of laboratory animals with IVIS Spectrum, which allows 2D and 3D bioluminescent and fluorescent imaging of the small animals. This method is useful in cancer research, investigation of inflammatory diseases, metabolic disorders using molecular probes.
Besides the IVIS Spectrum, we also own a Quantum FX microCT, which enables high resolution and high speed CT imaging of laboratory animals. Additionally, the microCT is complementary to IVIS Spectrum and provides co-registration of obtained results. With different contrast agents, we can get a complete and detailed 3D overview of the researched organism and an insight into the development of numerous diseases.
We offer in vivo imaging of laboratory animals: 2D and 3D bioluminescence or fluorescence imaging and CT scans, with complete data evaluation of the obtained images. We are also open to new collaborations.
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE, Illinois – United States – March 05,2015 (PR Buzz):2D X-Ray Equipment: Market Shares, Strategies, and Forecasts, Worldwide, 2015 to 2021 is a new market research publication announced by Reportstack. Worldwide 2-D X-Ray equipment markets are increasingly diversified, poised to achieve significant growth as new technology breathes new life into a saturated market, forcing every facility to upgrade its existing x-ray equipment to have digital
To access full report with TOC, please visit 2D X-Ray Equipment: Market Shares, Strategies, and Forecasts, Worldwide, 2015 to 2021.
"2D imaging devices include those used in cardiac x-ray, cath lab, angioplasty, mammogram, general radiology, portable x-ray, surgical c-arm, fluoroscopy suites X-ray equipment by sectors. Mammography and interventional radiology are among the growth segments in the market. Portable devices are gaining favor in many clinical areas.
COVID-19: Message from the President – The College of Psychiatrists of Ireland
The College of Psychiatrists of Ireland > COVID-19: Information and Updates from CPsychI > COVID-19: Message from the President
Below is the most recent letter from College President, Dr William Flannery to CPsychI members related to COVID-19 vaccination. You can expand the options at the bottom of this page to view previous messages from the President related to COVID-19.
Unfortunately, as you are aware, we find ourselves in the midst of a very serious third wave of the Covid-19 pandemic, with rapidly increasing community transmission rates, capacity of our intensive care units being reached, and concerns that our health system is under severe strain.
We continue to advocate to the HSE, Government, and its relevant departments, for those with severe mental illness who are at a disproportionate risk from this pandemic given their pre-existing situation, and emphasising the standardised life expectancy up to 20 years below that of the general population, due to co-morbid physical illnesses and a struggling Mental Health Service.
In the context of Covid-19, there is an immediacy once again to address the parity of esteem of mental illness with physical illness – a message we consistently convey.
I want to assure you, as President of the College, that I am making every effort to ensure that all those involved in delivering mental health services, whatever their location, are prioritised for vaccination.
As the majority of mental health services are delivered in the community rather than in psychiatric units or hospital settings, I am advocating strongly for the same priority rating to be accorded to staff in community based settings within the Mental Health Services as those within hospital settings.
I will continue to keep you informed on the efforts that I, and the other College officers and directors, are making on your behalf and on behalf of our patients.
20 March 2020 - Message from the President
These are worrying times for our patients, our families and ourselves.
I believe that by our continued collaboration with each other and the wider health system, we will get through this crisis. With continued confidence in the high quality of our training, experience and professionalism we can continue to care for our very vulnerable group of patients, our teams and ourselves.
By using the values we have as a College, the path for the College is to adapt to the crisis of COVID-19 to sustain our mission and objectives as much as possible. We will continue with the high quality of our training and ensure that our BSTs and HSTs progress to become fully trained confident specialists and we will hold and advocate for parity of esteem for those suffering with mental illness and disorders.
I have outlined some areas below on how the College is responding and adapting during this crisis. The College website will also provide updates.
The aim is to ensure we continue with progression through training to graduation. Core to this will be at key decision points which will ensure that BSTs move into HST and that HSTs complete their training.
Obviously, all of training is contingent on how the crisis evolves.
Meeting CPD requirements is a challenge in these extraordinary circumstances and any updated guidance and flexibility from the Medical Council will be brought to your attention.
In addition to my last communication, restrictions on the number of credits you can log from online CPD in 2019/20 have been lifted as have restrictions on the total number of Internal / External CPD credits you can log from participation in CPsychI faculty meetings, committees and working groups.
As you already know the Spring Conference is cancelled, as are the Hot Topics series of events. Faculty and committee meetings however, can still operate through the College's video conferencing and teleconferencing facilities if the Chair deems this is necessary. Again, look out for updates on the College's website, as these may be cancelled in response to the current situation.
I want to pay tribute to the College Staff who are striving to continue with the business of the College in very different and changing circumstances and ask for your continued patience of every department, as we cannot expect the same high level of response we usually get. Most of the team are working from home and responding to emails with some available by phone also. Again, the website has information on how best to correspond with the team.
Useful Information for Rapidly Changing Service Delivery
The current crisis as you know is stretching the resources of the health service and ourselves. Due to social distancing and other practices now required services are changing and adapting delivery of those services where necessary and possible. Psychiatry is no different. The College Professional Ethics for Psychiatrists can help when deciding on what is best practice for difficult choices.
The College is also developing a position paper on the use of 'telepsychiatry'. This is still in draft form but it does provide a process on how to adapt our practice utilising tele-methods. See draft 'Telepsychiatry and its use' here which may be of help. The Irish Medical Council outlines its appropriate use specifically in paragraph Section 43.0, page 32 of the 2019 "Guide to professional conduct and ethics".
The MPS has also provided an on-line session on remote consulting and a 'medico legal aspects of tele-medicine' document.
Emergency Council Meeting of the College
I am calling an emergency Council meeting by teleconference for next Tuesday to discuss training and the psychiatric response to this crisis.
Stay safe and look after your own health as much as you can in this time of daily shifting demands and expectations. The WHO guidance is relevant to us all.
With wisdom and compassion, we will get through this together.
20 April 2020 – Update from President on College Activity and Advocacy
On behalf of the College, I want to express sympathy to the families of those who have passed away from Covid-19, especially those from residential mental health institutions. I also want to acknowledge the hard work and dedication of the staff who cared for them.
It is a false dawn when mention is made of the acute hospitals avoiding a surge while Covid-19 is taking a heavy toll among psychiatric patients. It is imperative, collectively and individually, that we continue to advocate strongly for parity of esteem for psychiatric illness. As I said in my last address, psychiatric patients should have the same access to testing, containment and treatment as other patients in the health system.
The responsibility of the College is to ensure there are fully trained and competent specialists who the Medical Council can place on the specialist register, to work in the Mental Health Services. The responsibility for delivery of these services is with the HSE and the responsibility for regulation is with the Mental Health Commission. The College continues to collaborate with the HSE and the Mental Health Commission to support them in their responsibilities.
I believe all who are involved in the Mental Health Services want what the College wants – the best possible outcomes for individuals who experience mental illness. This must mean parity of esteem for psychiatric illness. The challenge, as always, is how this is operationalised. We have issued press statements and correspondence to Minister Harris addressing this.
There are two main challenges ahead for the College in collaborating to achieve parity of esteem. The first is what we are doing during the Covid-19 crisis and the second is how to ensure that lessons are learnt from this crisis. Outlined below is what the College has been doing, and will continue to do, to meet the first challenge. The second challenge is evolving daily and requires us to use the College structures now and in the future (Faculties, Council, Communications & Policy etc) to collate and examine the learnings which can shape and define what parity of esteem means for us.
HSE Mental Health Operations and Faculty Input
Collaboration with the Mental Health Operations Team is facilitated by monthly meetings between the Management Team of the College and the National Clinical Advisory Group Lead for Mental Health. We welcome Dr Amir Niazi who has just taken up this post and look forward to mutually beneficial collaboration with him.
I have asked the Chairs of each Faculty to collate experiences and examples that can be used to guide these meetings with Mental Health Operations. It is important for the Faculty meetings to continue in some form to allow this to happen and I ask that members bring their experience and examples to their Faculty through the Chair or by 'attending' meetings remotely when they occur.
The first principle of the College Professional Ethics for Psychiatrists is that "Psychiatrists shall treat every Patient with respect." We have to be mindful of a patient's human rights, the quality of care they receive, and that their best interests are considered a priority if they lack capacity.
The Mental Health Commission has been informed of our concerns about how the changes to the Mental Health Act and the Mental Health Commission regulations have the potential to undermine these values and may lead to unintended consequences of an adverse nature. I have provided them with specific examples of how Tribunals now operate and the regulations for Approved Centres as part of the ongoing communication with them.
'Be on call for Ireland' Initiative
This initiative was set up with the aim of employing healthcare staff who are not currently working for the HSE and quickly deploying them into the health service to work for the duration of the crisis. The duration is for a three month period but may be extended. The College's role with this initiative is to give an expert recommendation for doctors with any level of psychiatric training as to what grade and setting they might work in.
College Video Series for Families of Young People with Mental Illness
Restrictive measures are difficult for everyone and an additional stress for those who suffer from or care for those with Mental Illness. The College, through the Communication, External Affairs & Policy Department, has been developing a video series titled Supporting Families of Young People with Mental Illness During Covid-19. I want to thank those who are leading out on this, Dr Kieran Moore, Prof Fiona McNicholas and Prof Louise Gallagher for their videos on ADHD, Eating Disorders and Autism respectively. While we have released them to media and relevant organisations to reach the families, I encourage you to share them with your teams and families who you believe will benefit from them. More videos are in the pipeline and being added to the website as they are completed.
COVID-19: Information and Updates on College Website
This evolving section on the College website, which is very useful for members and trainees, contains Covid-19 specific updates on Postgraduate Training, CPD, Healthcare Professionals' welfare and College press statements during this crisis. Tips on self-care, links to useful resources as recommended by College members as well as the above video series are also published in this section.
If you wish to add anything to this section, please contact the Communication, External Affairs & Policy Department directly or through your Faculty and Faculty Chair.
College Activities and Business
All departments of the College are still operating, are available for members by email and phone, and are continuing with activities and functions that can be completed but in a different way when necessary to comply with Covid-19 restrictions. Some activities and functions cannot be carried out due to the restrictions but updates and possibilities are discussed daily by all concerned.
Post-COVID and Budgetary Parity of Esteem
I have no doubt there will be a reckoning when this crisis passes. For the past 12 years, Mental Health has received 6% or less of the overall Health Budget, when it should be 12%. We now see the consequences. What will this reckoning bring for Mental Health Services?
By coming together and using the processes in place in the College, be they Faculty meetings, Hot Topics or Training, we can define that reckoning and what it means for parity of esteem for psychiatric illness.
Finally, I want to acknowledge the hard work of all healthcare staff, who make up a quarter of all Covid-19 cases. Psychiatric services are very much still in operation across the country and are reporting to be very busy. There is much to be proud of despite these very difficult times.
With the wisdom to have hope for the future.
21 December 2020 - Christmas Address from the President
This is the time of year where we acknowledge the relationships we have with those around us. Where we thank those who have given meaning to who we are and what we do. Reflecting on this for the College, the people involved and the connections made, there are many to thank.
Foremost, I want to thank the Management Team of the College, Dr Lorcan Martin, Vice President and Director of Professional Competence, Dr Mike Scully, Treasurer, Dr Maeve Doyle, Director of Communication and Public Education, Dr Aoibhinn Lynch, Dean of Education, Ms Miriam Silke, Chief Executive, and the College Staff, who have been solid despite the whirlwind of changes around them. Where would the College be without Ms Lorna O'Callaghan, Manager Professional Competence, Ms Andrea Ryder, Manager Communication, External Affairs & Policy and Ms Kellie Myers, Operations Manager Postgraduate Training.
Next, I want to thank the Council, who discharged their duties admirably during the year as Trustees of the College. I want to welcome the new full specialist members of the College, who are our future. I want to thank all Members of the College for their support and belief that our College is the true voice of Psychiatry.
Dr Justin Brophy, former Chair, Forum of Irish Postgraduate Medical Training Bodies
I want to thank Dr Justin Brophy, a former President of the College, for his work as Chair of the Forum of Irish Postgraduate Medical Training Bodies and of course for never forgetting the College. His last task with the Forum is to complete a National Medical Training Strategy, the objectives being a vision for postgraduate training, improvement of healthcare and a world class medical training. Aoibhinn, Miriam and I sit on the working group ensuring there is parity of esteem for psychiatry.
Prof Frank Murray, former Director NDTP and agreed psychiatrist workforce planning figures.
I want to thank Prof Frank Murray, who in November stepped down as Director of National Doctors Training and Planning unit of the HSE. He may be an eminent Gastroenterologist, but he has that core skill of a psychiatrist, empathy, which was evident in how he guided planning for the number of Consultant Psychiatrists needed by 2030. He has signed off on the document with the agreement of the College, but it remains a draft resting with the Chief Clinical Officer for final approval.
An idea of the figures in that document are as follows: there are just under 600 specialists in psychiatry, with about 450 Consultant posts in the HSE, with about 100 of these either vacant or filled by non-specialists. By 2030, we will need around 800 specialists. As we now have an indication of how many are needed, we can plan towards determining how many specialists we need to train. At present the College is allowed to recruit circa 60 Trainees a year. Often allowance is given to recruit a few more and the College has more suitable applicants than training places. We will need more, but how, given the shortfall in funding for training the College gets and the challenges in being a Consultant Trainer alongside a frenetic clinical workload?
Dr Amir Niazi, HSE National Clinical and Group Lead Mental Health and revised Mental Health Act.
I want to thank Dr Amir Niazi, National Clinical and Group Lead Mental Health. He has another core skill of a psychiatrist, that of collaborative working, shown in abundance in the challenging post he has. Most recently he has liaised with the College about the draft changes to the Mental Health Act. Of note, it is unclear yet if this is to be a new or amended Act. The Department of Health has asked the HSE and, on the request of the Mental Health Commission, the College to examine the Child section, which we are doing. The Department asked the HSE to examine the rest of the Act, mainly the adult section, but not formally the College, as it is was felt that sufficient psychiatric opinion was obtained from the board and structures of the Mental Health Commission. My impression is that the suggested changes will need further review by team with clinical and legal expertise.
External Stakeholder Relations and Collaboration
The College has good collaborative links with the Operations and Inspectorate of the Mental Health Commission, helpful meetings with Tulsa, a beneficial working relationship with Mental Health Reform and a growing relationship with the Mental Health Unit of the Department of Health. I want to thank the Minister for Mental Health, Mary Butler, TD, for opening our recent online Winter Conference, for stating that Sharing the Vision does not replace, but builds on A Vision for Change and knowing the difference between mental health difficulties and mental illness.
It is essential to hear each others voices for true collaboration. I believe our voice is increasingly being heard, if not yet understood. One example is how the results of our survey to members on COVID-19 Impact on Secondary Mental Healthcare Services in Ireland was referenced by Government as being used to influence their decision-making, quite possibly the largest influence of any of our initiatives in this area so far this year. It is for this reason the College wants to repeat this survey, so that we can continue to put forward our voice. Sometimes our voice is heard, but not yet fully clear. When I presented recently to the Oireachtas Sub-Committee on Mental Health, there was an innocent mistake made confusing us with Psychology. It is Psychology who want extend the upper age limit of CAMHS to 25, not Psychiatrists.
The College through the year has reminded the Medical Council about Patient Safety. There was good work done on this with progress in the processes for Specialist Registration and working towards an ethical framework for shared care. The Council has been very supportive in interpreting the regulations for professional competence and training to the virtual world. The College has prompted the Medical Council to examine Patient Safety by applying for specialist recognition for Forensic Psychiatry. I would have expected the Medical Council to be advocating the College to apply for this given how safety here is central, but in fact the converse is true, with our application being rejected pending appeal!
National Mental Health Policy and Implementation
Sharing the Vision rumbles on. Instead of a National Implementation and Monitoring Group mentioned in the document, there is a National Steering Group. I want to thank Dr Siobhan MacHale, who is the College Representative to this group, and to Dr Maeve Doyle who is on the Specialist Panel, for allowing their names to go forward. I struggle to pull together the links between what Sharing the Vision states and what in fact is planned for Mental Health Services; an increase in bed capacity, more WTEs in Mental Health, opening of the National Forensic Mental Health Service Hospital and resourcing of CAMHS. Also mentioned of course are 'crisis cafes'. I have mentioned before how we need to have our own vision or pathway for psychiatric services. My intention early next year is to establish a Policy and Strategy Committee to this, as well to support Siobhán and Maeve.
Information technology has worked well for the College in the last few months, with greater attendance and participation at Faculty and Council meetings, enabling College Staff to work from home and, most importantly, permitted training to continue. There were relatively few glitches. Hot Topics online is very popular and the College Winter conference was such a success that we will aim to have a two-day virtual conference next year. Special credit goes to the completion of the College examinations online. Typically, 10% of candidates do not finish on-line examinations as a result of IT difficulties. However we got everyone over the line with every candidate able to finish and be eligible for a result. Of course, IT does not replace what we did before, but can and does complement it.
One relationship within the College I have found increasingly rewarding is between Psychiatrists, Patients and their Family Members, which is our REFOCUS Committee. I want to thank Ms Jeannine Webster, mother of James, who has Schizoaffective Disorder, who spoke for the College alongside me at the Oireachtas Sub-Committee on Mental Health last week (17th December) and who put to them that having a fulfilled life should not be an aspiration, but a reality. I have asked the Chairs of each Faculty to discuss with you how we can bring this lived experience fully into our College Structure, including, I hope, having the Non-Psychiatrist (Joint) Chair of REFOCUS sit on Council alongside the Psychiatrist (Joint) Chair of REFOCUS. The voice of Patient-Doctor is a powerful one and one that cannot be ignored.
I am proud of our College mission, to promote excellence in the practice of psychiatry. We have accomplished a lot since our beginning in 2009 and we will do more. One next step is the College office building; the roof has been repaired, work has just started on the mews and will move onto the main building when this is done. By 2022, I will able to welcome you into our Members' Library and in person not virtually.
Check out our new 2013 Chair’s Report. This annual publication provides a summary of progress against our 2013 Policy Agenda and perspective on work left to be done. Key among the year’s highlights was enactment of a balanced state budget that focuses new investment on K-12 education, with accompanying reforms, and increased funding for higher education to address our state’s skills gap. The biggest disappointment was the legislature’s inability to pass a statewide transportation investment. The Roundtable believes such a package is critical to rebuilding Washington. Our coalition of business, labor and environmental interests is urging Gov. Inslee to call the legislature back into session this November to approve a new transportation investment package. It is past time to deliver a package that preserves the transportation system we have and finish projects in important economic corridors.
One of the biggest problems people face after an accident is getting the medical care they need. Especially if they don’t have insurance or the money they need to pay for treatment.
If you’re severely injured after a wreck, don’t worry about the costs of medical care. Call 911 and have an ambulance transport you to the hospital. If you’re not a fault for the wreck, your emergency room bill should be covered by the insurance for the at fault driver or by your own insurance. Taking care of yourself immediately after a wreck is the most important thing because of issues like concussions or internal bleeding. Bottom line, if you feel like you need to the ER, don’t decline an ambulance or the emergency room just because you’re worried about the bill.
People often ask us what to do if a few days have passed since the wreck and they are still in pain. This is not uncommon. Often ER doctors will send you home with a prescription for pain medicine and muscle relaxers. They will tell you that if your pain persist to follow up with your primary care physician. A
problem we often see with that, is either a) the injured party has no health insurance or money to pay for a doctor’s visit, or b) they don’t feel like they should have to come out of pocket for treatment or bill their health insurance since the wreck wasn’t their fault. Then, on top of all that, we often find that a family doctor won’t see a patient if the patient is seeking treatment for injuries related to a wreck. Why, you ask? When doctors see patients for injuries related to a wreck they may have to get involved in litigation should the insurance company for the at-fault party fail to fairly compensate the claimant – something that happens all too often.
Yes. Our firm can help find you the right doctor based on the injuries you sustained as a result of the wreck. We know how important it is that an injured victim see the right doctor, and not just their primary care physician or family doctor. We often explain it this way: if you needed brain surgery, you wouldn’t let a heart surgeon operate on your brain. Even if he were the best heart surgeon in the world! Thus, why would you let a family practitioner, whose usual day-to-day duties revolve around prescribing cold medicine and giving physicals, treat your torn rotator cuff or strained back? You wouldn’t. And you shouldn’t. And that’s where we come in.
At Hutchison & Stoy, PLLC, we have a network of doctors in the Fort Worth area who we send our clients to for treatment. Sometimes, an injured victim’s injuries can be resolved through therapy or chiropractic care which is where we always suggest treatment begin. In our opinion, the less invasive the treatment, the better. However, more significant injuries may require a specialist. Included in our network are orthopedic surgeons, neurologist, plastic surgeons and other doctors who can address these more significant injuries.
The doctors in our network will often wait to be paid once a lawsuit or claim is resolved which helps you get the treatment you need without worrying about the costs upfront. In addition, the doctors in our network aren’t scared to treat people who have been injured in a car wreck. The doctors we know have fought the insurance companies before, they’ve given depositions to support their treatment. They’re not scared to go to court and tell the truth.
Even if you have health insurance, it’s possible that your health insurance company will not pay your claims if they find your injuries were related to the wreck. Or, even in the event your health insurer decides to accept the claim, you know you’re going to get stuck with no telling how much in copays and out of pocket expenses. Now why should you be out of pocket when your injuries were caused by someone else?
Bottom line, if you’ve been injured in a car wreck and you’re hurt and have no health insurance, don’t let that stop you from getting the care you need. Contact the Warriors for Justice today at (817)820-0100 or fill out a free case evaluation online.
Rash With Plaquenil || Canadian Online Pharmacy
Rash With Plaquenil | Health Canada Drug Database
Home Canadian Drugs > Rash with plaquenil >
Discussion in 'Canadian Drugs' started by Sych, 06-Mar-2020.
Chloroquine storage in retina Af plaquenil Plaquenil 2016 Hydroxychloroquine sudden neck stiff neck pain
If experienced, these tend to have a Severe expression. Abnormal Liver Function Tests. Acute Liver Failure. Acute Pustular Eruptions On Skin. Bronchospasm. Decreased Blood Platelets. Decreased White Blood Cells. Deficiency Of Granulocytes A Type Of White Blood Cell. Skin rash Serious Side Effects of Plaquenil If you are taking Plaquenil long-term, such as for an autoimmune condition, your doctor should regularly check you for potential serious side effects. Plaquenil " Side Effects Started with rash on neck and chest. It became much worse. Got it on arms, legs, face, feet, hands. Was put on steroids 4 days after onset. Been on them 4 days is not getting any better. "
Plaqunil rash -, Plaquenil Hydroxychloroquine - Side Effects, Dosage.
Rashes is found among people who take Plaquenil, especially for people who are female, 60+ old, have been taking the drug for 1 month, also take medication Enbrel, and have Pain. This study is created by eHealthMe based on reports of 48,911 people who have side effects when taking Plaquenil from Food and Drug Administration FDA, and is updated regularly. Rashes may occur in up to 10% of patients, most commonly morbilliform or psoriasiform. Note that adverse cutaneous reactions to hydroxychloroquine are reported to affect more than 30% of patients with dermatomyositis, compared to a lower risk of rash in patients with cutaneous lupus erythematosus. The lower the dosage of steroids, the better for the patient. You may be given a steroid medication at first to help reduce the lupus symptoms until the time that the Plaquenil begins to take effect, which, as we mentioned, can take several months. Some drugs that may interact with Plaquenil antacids; botulinum toxins; digoxin; kaolin
o1n1, 06-Mar-2020 16:52
-=tix=- User
Lupus is an auto-immune disease in which the immune system cannot distinguish between threats (like viruses and bacteria), and healthy cells and tissue. How important is it to keep up with the accurate dose of this medication? I notice a difference in my fatigue and joint pain. It takes awhile to leave your system so really you shouldn't feel bad over two missed doses, but I can tell a difference. Can you quit plaquenil cold turkey, or have to wean Side effects to Stopping Plaquenil. - Sarcoidosis - Inspire Plaquenil Withdrawal – Life As An Anomaly
visionasa, 21-Feb-2020 01:51
Plaquenil is the brand name for the prescription drug hydroxychloroquine. Hydroxychloroquine - Wikipedia Hydroxychloroquine User Reviews for Rheumatoid Arthritis. Hydroxychloroquine Plaquenil - medications for Rheumatoid Arthritis RA
Regional differences in endoscopic sinus surgery in Finland: a nationwide register-based study | BMJ Open
http://orcid.org/0000-0003-0890-6686Sanna Toppila-Salmi1,2,
Heikki Rihkanen3,
Martti Arffman4,
Kristiina Manderbacka4,
Ilmo Keskimaki4,
Maija L Hytönen3
1 Haartman Institute, University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland
2 Skin and Allergy Hospital, Helsinki University Hospital and University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland
3 Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Helsinki University Hospital and University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland
4 Health and Social Systems Research Unit, National Institute for Health and Welfare, Helsinki, Finland
Correspondence to Dr Sanna Toppila-Salmi; Sanna.salmi{at}helsinki.fi
Objectives Endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) is a common operation typically performed due to chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS). There are limited data on the nationwide ESS rate and factors contributing to its regional variation. The aim was to evaluate factors causing variation of ESS rate.
Design Cross-sectional nationwide observational study.
Setting A ll patients undergoing ESS in Finland 2013–2015.
Population Nationwide Finnish population aged 15 years or over.
Main outcome measures ESS rate per 1000 inhabitants between 2013 and 2015 in all 21 hospital districts and independent factors for multilevel model analyses.
Methods We used the Finnish register data of all patients with CRS who underwent ESS in 2013–2015. Patients aged under 15 years and those with ESS due to neoplasia were excluded. The age and gender standardised ESS rates were calculated, and multilevel Poisson regression models were used to evaluate variation in ESS in the 21 hospital districts. The likelihood ratio test was applied to assess the statistical significance of random components in the models.
Results The nationwide annual rate of ESS is 0.71 per 1000 people in Finland. Hospital district rates varied from 0.25/1000 (95% CI 0.18 to 0.32) to 1.15/1000 (95% CI 1.09 1.21). Compared with males, females undergo ESS significantly more frequently (57% of the procedures), more often due to CRS without nasal polyps, and at a younger age (mean age 44.2 and 46.2 years, correspondingly). Multilevel analyses showed that lower age (between 24 years and 45 years) and availability/ease of medical services were independently associated with higher ESS rates.
Conclusions This study confirms marked regional variation in the ESS rate in Finland, explained only in part by patients' age and differing availability of medical services. To analyse ESS across different CRS phenotypes or to compare quality registers on ESS properly, more research on regional variation is needed.
ginusitis
http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bmjopen-2018-022173
Strengths of this study comprise a population-based nationwide design including all patients undergoing ESS in both public and private hospitals in Finland for the study years and information concerning the diagnoses, procedures performed and individual level demographic data.
The completeness and accuracy of the hospital discharge register have consistently been shown to be good.
Multilevel models enabled us to capture the hierarchical nature of the data (patients nested in hospital districts) allowing us to analyse the association more efficiently.
A limitation is that no data on the need for sinus surgery are provided as no register data exist concerning the prevalence of conditions leading to endoscopic sinus surgery.
Our data did not include information on health behaviours, earlier treatment of the condition or clinical information.
Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) is a clinical disorder encompassing a heterogeneous group of endotypes and two main phenotypes.1 It is one of the most common chronic adult health problems in the Western world with a prevalence of 6%–11%.1–4 CRS has an independent and severe impact on the quality of life similar to chronic diseases such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and diabetes.1 In the USA, the CRS-related healthcare costs are estimated to be $6.9–$9.9 billion dollars per year.5
The predisposing factors of CRS include genetic and airborne factors in addition to host immunity.1 6 7 CRS is associated with airway allergy, asthma and COPD.1 8 CRS with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) and CRS without nasal polyps (CRSsNP) are considered to be phenotypes of CRS, with presumably different aetiologies and pathomechanisms.1 CRSwNP affects between 1% and 4% of the general population.1
Endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) has been the most common operative approach for patients with CRS among whom maximal medical treatments have failed.1 ESS is a common procedure, with an estimated 250 000 cases annually in the USA.9–11 ESS also creates a considerable financial burden. One study estimated the total cost of ESS to the UK National Health Service to be in excess of £30 million per year.12
Three non-population-based studies within the USA have shown ESS rates to vary according to geographic area or ethnicity. An observational cohort study performed on the MarketScan Commercial Claim and Encounters database yielded a mean ESS rate of 0.94 per 1000 employed, working-aged people in the USA.9 Moreover, the study showed fourfold to fivefold differences between the states with the highest and lowest rates. Venkatraman et al investigated a 20% sample of Medicare beneficiaries aged 65–99 years. Their study showed an increase in ESS rates for the period 1998–2006.13 The third study based on the MarketScan Medicaid database in the USA reported overall sinus surgery rates per 1000 people in the Medicaid population to range from 0.36 to 0.40 in 2009–2013.13 The ESS rate was significantly lower for African-Americans than for persons of Hispanic origin.
The reasons behind the detected geographic variation in ESS rates are not fully understood. Geographical variation might reflect a number of factors, including both underutilisation and overutilisation of surgery in the treatment of CRS, a lack of clinically unambiguous applicable guidelines and a lack of evidence in well-constructed randomised controlled trials.12 To our knowledge, no previous exhaustive nationwide studies have been conducted on ESS rates and factors affecting the likelihood of the surgical procedure. This nationwide study aimed to examine the number and rates of ESS performed due to inflammatory sinonasal diseases across Finland and putative factors explaining the difference.
The data of all patients who had undergone ESS by opening the ostiomeatal complex (DMB20) and/or opening the ethmoid sinuses (DNB20) due to sinonasal inflammations in Finland in 2013–2015 were extracted from the hospital discharge register, which registers all ESS procedures in Finland and is maintained by the Institute for Health and Welfare. Patients aged under 15 years and those operated on due to neoplastic lesions were excluded. Patients with CRS under 15 years of age were not included due to potential differences in their disease aetiopathogenesis and treatment.1 Age was classified into 5-year age brackets. Diagnosis was determined as CRSwNPs if any of the main or secondary diagnosis codes were J33.1 Furthermore, if any of the main or secondary diagnosis codes was J32 or the main diagnosis code was J01, the diagnosis was determined as CRSsNPs.1 Recurrent acute rhinosinusitis without nasal polyps (NPs) were regarded as belonging to the CRSsNP group. The rest of the procedures were classified into the group 'Other diagnoses'. The collected data included information on the ESS procedure, code of diagnosis (ICD10), gender, age, service provider and hospital district in which the patient was living at the time of ESS.
The data concerning hospitals performing ESS was classified into hospital districts, which own the public hospitals. Finland is divided into 21 hospital districts. The public hospitals within the district are owned by the federations of municipalities and mainly serving residents of their catchment area. In Finland, public medical care covers the vast majority (92% in 2014) of all surgical interventions in different medical fields. Patient's possibility to choose any public hospital in the country increased in the beginning 2014, yet most patients have used the closest public hospital in their home hospital district also after that (https://www.kkv.fi/2016/kkv-selvityksia-3-2016). Both public and private healthcare providers report all hospitalisations and surgical procedures to the same nationwide hospital discharge database.
National population data in hospital districts were tabulated by gender and age in 5-year age brackets from Statistics Finland's website (http://www.stat.fi/til/vaerak/index_en.html) for the years 2013–2015. The number of working-aged physicians and ENT doctors was retrieved from the website of the Finnish Medical Association (https://www.laakariliitto.fi/tutkimus/laakarityovoima).
The institute granted the permission to use hospital discharge register data for the patient population as the competent register authority in charge of the register.
This study used national register data and did not involve patients in the recruitment or conduct of the study.
The data were tabulated by hospital district according to patients' residence. To reduce random variability, all analyses were performed for the whole study period from 2013 to 2015, but results were presented as annual averages. Due to the small number of cases, the smallest district of Åland islands (24 000 inhabitants aged over 15 years) was included only in the total number of ESS but excluded from the multilevel models.
We calculated age-adjusted and gender-adjusted rates of ESS in hospital districts using a direct standardisation method with the population structure of Finland in 2013–2015 as the standard population. Two-level Poisson regression models adjusted for age group with hospital district as random level and logarithm of population at risk as an offset variable were conducted to model the regional variation in ESS. Next, factors indicating proportion of operations performed by private ENT service providers, proportions of CRSwNP and CRSsNP and proportion of operations performed outside the hospital district of patients' residence in each stratum, as well as the density of physicians in hospital districts were added to the models. Models were estimated separately for men and women, as descriptive analyses revealed differing ESS profiles between them. Multilevel models were applied to capture the hierarchical nature of the data, and effects of explaining factors were reported as risk ratios. Wald test was applied to assess the statistical significance of the variance term denoting variation at the hospital district level. Pearson's χ2 test was used to test the distribution of diagnoses in hospital districts. A 95% CI was used to indicate statistical significance. Statistical analyses were performed by using SPSS V.22 and SAS V.9.3 software.
Variation in ESS rates
In 2013–2015, the total number of ESS was 9640, and the nationwide mean rate was 0.71 procedures per 1000 inhabitants. Three per cent of the patients underwent ESS twice or three times during this period. Operations were more common among women (age-standardised rates: 0.79/1000 and 0.62/1000, respectively). The mean age at the time of ESS was 44.0 (SD 15.9) years in females and 46.1 (SD 15.8) years in males (figure 1). The ESS rate of working-aged patients with CRS (aged 26–65 years) was higher (0.86/1000) than the one among older patients with CRS aged 65 years or older (0.35/1000). No significant differences were found in the age distribution of ESS patients between the hospital districts. Of all ESS procedures, 87% were performed by community-run public healthcare providers and 96% in the patient's home district (HD).
Age distribution of endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) in Finland. Included are patients operated on during 2013–2015, presented as annual averages.
Seventy-two per cent of patients (62% of males, 80% of females) who underwent ESS were diagnosed as having CRSsNP. Twenty per cent of patients (30% of males, 13% of females) were diagnosed as having CRSwNP. Other diagnoses (7%) included paranasal cysts or mucoceles, hypertrophy of turbinates and miscellaneous reasons.
The mean ESS rates per 1000 inhabitants aged over 15 years in the 21 districts are shown in the heatmap (figure 2). Hospital district rates varied from 0.25/1000 (95% CI 0.18 to 0.32) to 1.15/1000 (1.09 to 1.21) denoting a fourfold difference. The proportion of patients operated on for CRSsNP and CRSwNP varied significantly between districts (p<0.001).
Age-standardised and gender-standardised rate of endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS) by hospital districts in Finland (mean of the years 2013–2015). Darker colours represent higher operation rates. The circle indicates the site of the central hospital, and the size represents the number of inhabitants within the district. Districts with white circles have a medical faculty.
Multilevel models of factors affecting the variation in ESS rate
The multilevel models were created in order to study the level of variation in the probability of ESS between the hospital districts to examine whether certain factors had an independent effect on ESS and to assess whether the variation found between hospital districts could be explained by these factors.
Table 1 presents the results of multilevel modelling. In women, after adjusting for age, there was significant variation at the hospital district level (p<0.001). After adjusting for independent factors, the regional variation in ESS rates remained significant (p<0.001). In men, we found significant variation at the hospital district level after adjusting for age (p<0.001). Again, after adjustment for independent factors, the regional variation in ESS remained significant (p<0.001). No differences from the national average were found in half of the home districts after controlling for age only among both men and women. Controlling for other independent factors levelled out the operation risk compared with the national average in seven home districts among men and four among women. However, part of the variation between hospital districts remained unexplained.
Factors affecting ESS rates in men and women in an adjusted Poisson regression model
Of the independent factors, younger age (p<0.001) and high density of physicians (p=0.026) were significantly associated with a high ESS rate (table 1). Women aged 40–44 years were operated on 4.76 times more frequently than women aged over 70 years. Among men, age (p<0.001) and the proportion of ESS performed by private service providers (p=0.0001) were associated with high operation rates in the district, whereas ESS performed outside the patient's home district (p=0.004) was significantly associated with a low rate.
The proportion of patients operated on due to CRSwNP varied from one district to another (p<0.001). The range was from 10% to 33%. In multivariate multilevel models, the diagnosis did not explain the risk on the operation rate.
To reduce inefficient or unwarranted practice patterns and to improve the overall performance of the health system, it is essential to define the variations in healthcare and the underlying reasons.9 14 We found regional variation in ESS not explained by variations in gender and age of the patient population.
In Finland, the nationwide mean annual rate of ESS among adult patients was 0.71/1000. The number is similar to what another study group has detected in the UK population.12 The ESS rate of working-aged people (0.86/1000) in the current study is fairly close to that reported among the employed cohort in the USA (0.94/1000).9 We demonstrate here that elderly people in Finland are operated on considerably less frequently (0.35/1000) than their peers in the USA (0.92/1000).13 In the present study, there was marked variability in ESS rates between the 21 hospital districts after standardisation of age and gender. We found a fourfold difference between the highest and the lowest regional operation rate. This is in line with the findings in the USA9 13 where up to fivefold differences between the states were observed. Private hospitals, in which 13% of all ESS procedures were performed, lack precise catchment areas in Finland and thereby population at risk. Yet, the risk ratios of the current study suggest that the proportion of private hospitals in the hospital district did have an effect on ESS operations. Nevertheless, the present nationwide study of Finland shows that regional differences exist also in a country with a universal nationwide healthcare system where the procedures are performed mostly in publicly financed institutions.
The effect of independent factors to ESS variation
We demonstrated that ESS is performed 1.3 times more frequently on women than on men. This is in accord with the expected population-based male-to-female ratio of CRS. CRS is estimated to be 1.1–2 times more common in women than in men.2 15 The infection rates in females aged between 20 and 34 years are higher probably due to a greater occupational risk to be exposed to infections relative to men.16 17 This might, in part, enhance the development of CRS in females. In the present study, the mean age of operated females was lower than that of males. This might be due to differences in host–environment interactions and pathomechanisms.18 It is also possible that women use more general healthcare services.19
In this study, the ESS rate of working-aged people (26–65 years) was 2.5 times higher than that of retirement-aged people. Moreover, the multilevel models showed that the patient's age had an independent effect on ESS rate across Finland, which could putatively be related to differences in life style, operation eligibility or probability to have been already operated.
It is difficult to evaluate the population-based prevalence of CRSwNP and CRSsNP due to limitations of diagnostic methods in primary care. In the European population, the prevalence of CRSwNP has been estimated at 1%–4% and CRSsNP about 10%.1 20 In the present study, 20% of ESS was performed on patients with CRSwNP. This is slightly higher than the ratio of CRSwNP and CRSsNP phenotypes in the literature cited above. It is consistent with the greater need for surgery with nasal polyposis.
ESS due to CRSwNP was performed nearly three times more frequently on males than on females. In a retrospective, cross-sectional American study, data on CRS patients and their non-CRS controls were analysed.18 The authors found that the proportion of females with CRSwNP was 38% and that these women had more severe disease than men.18 In our study, 27% of the operated CRSwNP patients were female. This figure is in line with the previous study. Hypertrophy or air cells of the turbinates does not normally fulfil criteria for ESS and could in part be related to wrong or incomplete insertion of diagnosis code.
Potential factors behind variation in ESS
The multilevel models showed that in females, young age and high density of physicians were significantly associated with a high ESS likelihood. In males, independent factors associated with a high probability of ESS were young age and a high proportion of ESS performed by private ENT specialists. ESS performed out of the patient's home district was associated with a low operation likelihood. Excluding the age factor, these findings reflect the impact of availability on operation rates. Availability of medical services would mean any kind of ease to get the medical service including distance, queuing time, easiness to get appointment and so on. Higher ESS rates were detected also in hospital districts with a high density of ENT specialists as well as in hospital districts having a university hospital with medical faculty. Yet, due to multicollinearity, these factors could not be included in the multilevel Poisson model. Taken together, our findings suggest that, in addition to the population's age structure, the availability of medical services has an independent effect on ESS probability.
Putative other reasons for regional variation in ESS rate
In both females and males, after adjusting for age and factors related to the availability of medical services, a clear regional variation remained in ESS, probably due to in part relative indications for ESS In industrialised countries, ESS rate might depend on informed patient choice and the treatment strategies available and the rate can vary extensively because of differences in professional opinions.14 21 Future research should focus more on evidence-based treatments for CRS and indications of ESS in different disease course and phenotypes.
Strengths of this study comprise a population-based nationwide design and reliable register-based data, including information on all surgical procedures performed in Finland.22 Meticulously collected data on diagnosis, operating hospital and patient's municipality of residence as well as data on the density of physicians and ENT specialists are readily available.
The study includes some limitations that must also be addressed. No data on the need for sinus surgery are provided, as we examined the numbers of operated patients instead of the CRS patient population as no register data exist on the total patient population eligible for the operation. Furthermore, our data did not include information on patient's socioeconomic status, general health, subjective nasal symptoms or X-ray findings. Despite relatively small regional variation in socioeconomic or ethnic status of the Finnish population, some regional dissimilarities might exist, which could affect the probability of being operated on. We acknowledge that the register-based data have limited information on background factors and thus they could not be added to the multilevel models. A limitation is that paediatric patients with CRS under 15 years of age were not included due to potential differences in their disease aetiopathogenesis and treatment. Future studies should address potential variation in ESS in paediatric population. We acknowledge that lack of data of patient's allergy and other associating conditions, as well as of ESS costs limit interpretation of the results.
This nationwide study shows that high regional variation in ESS rate exists in Finland where the vast majority of procedures are performed in a public healthcare system. Patient's age and the availability of medical services are associated with ESS probability. However, these factors explained ESS rate variability only in part. This might create a problem on an unbiased quality control among operating institutions.
Fokkens WJ ,
Lund VJ ,
Mullol J , et al
. European position paper on rhinosinusitis and nasal polyps 2012. Rhinol Suppl 2012;23:3.
Hastan D ,
Bachert C , et al
. Chronic rhinosinusitis in Europe--an underestimated disease. A GA²LEN study. Allergy 2011;66:1216–23.doi:10.1111/j.1398-9995.2011.02646.x
Lee EJ , et al
. Prevalence and risk factors of chronic rhinosinusitis in South Korea according to diagnostic criteria. Rhinology 2016;54:329–35.doi:10.4193/Rhin15.157
Pilan RR ,
Pinna FR ,
Bezerra TF , et al
. Prevalence of chronic rhinosinusitis in Sao Paulo. Rhinology 2012;50:129–38.doi:10.4193/Rhino11.256
Orlandi RR ,
Rudmik L
. Cost of adult chronic rhinosinusitis: a systematic review. Laryngoscope 2015;125:1547–56.doi:10.1002/lary.25180
Toppila-Salmi S ,
van Drunen CM ,
Fokkens WJ , et al
. Molecular mechanisms of nasal epithelium in rhinitis and rhinosinusitis. Curr Allergy Asthma Rep 2015;15:495.doi:10.1007/s11882-014-0495-8
Bohman A ,
Juodakis J ,
Oscarsson M , et al
. A family-based genome-wide association study of chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps implicates several genes in the disease pathogenesis. PLoS One 2017;12:e0185244.doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0185244
Chien CY ,
Tai SY ,
Wang LF , et al
. Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease predicts chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyps: A population-based study. Am J Rhinol Allergy 2015;29:e75–e80.doi:10.2500/ajra.2015.29.4172
Holy CE ,
. Geographic variation of endoscopic sinus surgery in the United States. Laryngoscope 2015;125:1772–8.doi:10.1002/lary.25314
. Ambulatory sinus and nasal surgery in the United States: demographics and perioperative outcomes. Laryngoscope 2010;120:635–8.doi:10.1002/lary.20777
Darlin S ,
Bobian M , et al
. Evolving trends in sinus surgery: what is the impact of balloon sinus dilation? Laryngoscope 2018;128.doi:10.1002/lary.26941
Philpott C ,
Erskine S , et al
. The burden of revision sinonasal surgery in the UK-data from the Chronic Rhinosinusitis Epidemiology Study (CRES): a cross-sectional study. BMJ Open 2015;5:e006680.doi:10.1136/bmjopen-2014-006680
Venkatraman G ,
. Small area variation in endoscopic sinus surgery rates among the medicare population. Arch Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 2011;137:253–7.doi:10.1001/archoto.2011.17
. Time to tackle unwarranted variations in practice. BMJ 2011;342:d1513.doi:10.1136/bmj.d1513
Ference EH ,
Hulse KE , et al
. Commentary on gender differences in prevalence, treatment, and quality of life of patients with chronic rhinosinusitis. Allergy Rhinol 2015;6:82–8.doi:10.2500/ar.2015.6.0120
Bachert C ,
Holtappels G
. Pathophysiology of chronic rhinosinusitis, pharmaceutical therapy options. GMS Curr Top Otorhinolaryngol Head Neck Surg 2015;14:Doc09.doi:10.3205/cto000124
Heikkinen T ,
. The common cold. Lancet 2003;361:51–9.doi:10.1016/S0140-6736(03)12162-9
Stevens WW ,
Suh L , et al
. A retrospective, cross-sectional study reveals that women with CRSwNP have more severe disease than men. Immun Inflamm Dis 2015;3:14–22.doi:10.1002/iid3.46
Kazanjian A ,
Morettin D ,
. Health care utilization by Canadian women. BMC Womens Health 2004;4(Suppl 1):S33–6874.doi:10.1186/1472-6874-4-S1-S33
Chaaban MR ,
Walsh EM ,
Woodworth BA
. Epidemiology and differential diagnosis of nasal polyps. Am J Rhinol Allergy 2013;27:473–8.doi:10.2500/ajra.2013.27.3981
. Geography and the debate over Medicare reform. Health Aff 2002;Suppl Web Exclusives:W96–114.doi:10.1377/hlthaff.w2.96
. Quality of the Finnish hospital discharge register: a systematic review. Scand J Public Health 2012;40:505–15.doi:10.1177/1403494812456637
Contributors All authors participated in the planning and conception of the study and the analytical strategy. HR, MA, KM and IK performed the data management, analyses, tables and figures. HR, SKT-S and MH wrote the manuscript. All authors critically reviewed the manuscript.
Funding The study was supported in part by a research grant from the Aatos Erkko Foundation. All authors declare the statement of independence of researchers from the funder.
Ethics approval Ethical consent was obtained from the Research Ethics Committee of the Finnish National Institute for Health and Welfare (approval number 9/2016/§746).
HHS Announces Nearly $1 Billion for Rural COVID-19 Response - Rural Spotlight
The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) announced the availability of nearly $1 billion to respond to COVID-19 in rural communities. Administered by the Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), the funds will expand COVID-19 testing, and increase the number of vaccines sent to rural areas.
Additionally, HHS announced that approximately $250 million will be awarded to develop and support a community-based workforce who will serve as trusted voices sharing information about vaccines, work to increase COVID-19 vaccine confidence, and address any barriers to vaccination for individuals living in vulnerable and medically underserved communities.
Over the next few months, HRSA will:
Provide up to $100,000 to each of more than 4,600 Rural Health Clinics (RHCs) across the country through the Rural Health Clinic COVID-19 Testing and Mitigation Program, which follows the success of the Rural Health Clinic COVID-19 Testing Program. Send questions about the Rural Health Clinic COVID-19 Testing and Mitigation Program to RHCCOVID-19Testing@hrsa.gov.
Further expand COVID-19 testing in approximately 1,730 small rural hospitals – Critical Access Hospitals and other rural hospitals with fewer than 50 beds – with up to $230,000 each through the Small Rural Hospital Improvement Program (SHIP). Hospitals that are interested should contact their state's SHIP grantee.
Invite RHCs to join the new Rural Health Clinic COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Program – a joint effort with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to increase COVID-19 vaccine supply in rural communities. Send questions about the Rural Health Clinic COVID-19 Vaccine Distribution Program to ruralpolicy@hrsa.gov with RHC Vaccine Distribution in the subject line.
Make nearly $100 million available in grants through the Rural Health Clinic Vaccine Confidence (RHCVC) Program. HRSA will fund all eligible RHCs that apply. Rural Health Clinics participating in the RHCVC program will be able to use the funds to increase patient and community confidence in COVID-19 vaccination and to address equity gaps by bolstering patient literacy on the benefits of broader vaccination for other infectious diseases. Send questions about the Rural Health Clinic Vaccine Confidence Program to RHCVaxconfidence@hrsa.gov.
Read the full press release and White House Fact Sheet for more details about this new funding.
For more information about HRSA's rural programs, visit the Federal Office of Rural Health Policy website: https://www.hrsa.gov/rural-health/index.html.
Prevention March 11, 2020
According to research published in the journal BMC Musculoskeletal Disorders, stress at work could be the culprit of chronic back pain.
Even with standing desks and walking meetings, work still tends to be tough on your back, since previous research has found a hunched-over position at your desk for long stretches of time can spell trouble. But it may not be poor posture that's the culprit of your chronic pain. New research suggests that psychological and social factors in the workplace could be just as detrimental as physical challenges.
