When the galanthamine acetate had been characterized, this research continued by studying its toxicity using zebrafish embryos.There are three parameters that had been study which are survival rate and LC50 measurement, body curvature or scoliosis determination and heart rate measurement of zebrafish embryo trated with sample until 96 hours.
For survival rate and LC50 measurement, zebrafish embryo is treated with sample galanthamine acetate (0.05g) and incubated for 24 hours per exposure. Then, the treated embryo is observed under an inverted or streomicroscope after 24 hours per exposure. The acute toxicity endpoint after 24 hour exposure to test solutions is analyzed. Next, the Dead or Coagulated column.which are”1″ is dead or coagulated and “0” is not considered dead or coagulated is observed.
CpG-ODN 2007 protects zebrafish against Vibrio vulnificus-induced infection | bioRxiv
CpG-ODN 2007 protects zebrafish against Vibrio vulnificus-induced infection
View ORCID ProfileHua Chen, View ORCID ProfileLijuan Zhang, View ORCID ProfileSuyi Li, View ORCID ProfileLing Ke, View ORCID ProfileChentao Lin, View ORCID ProfileXu Chen
doi: https://doi.org/10.1101/780742
The Public Service Platform for Industrialization Development Technology of Marine Biological Medicine and Product of State Oceanic Administration, Fujian Normal University No.1 Keji Road, Shangjie, Minhou, Fuzhou, Fujian, China 350117
ORCID record for Suyi Li
ORCID record for Ling Ke
The Public Service Platform for Industrialization Development Technology of Marine Biological Medicine and Product of State Oceanic Administration, Fujian Normal University No.1 Keji Road, Shangjie, Minhou, Fuzhou, Fujian, China 350117Center of Engineering Technology Research for Microalgae Germplasm Improvement of Fujian, Southern Institute of Oceanography, Fujian Normal University No.1 Keji Road, Shangjie, Minhou, Fuzhou, Fujian, China 350117
ORCID record for Chentao Lin
For correspondence: 1196239614@qq.com
Vibrio vulnificus (V. vulnificus) is an aquatic pathogen that can cause primary sepsis and soft tissue infection. CpG oligodeoxynucleotides (CpG-ODN) are a type of essential immunomodulators, which can trigger or enhance immune responses in mammals, fish, and humans. In this study, we evaluated the effect of CpG-ODN 2007 as a potential immunostimulant for zebrafish infected with V. vulnificus (FJ03-X2). Fish injected with the CpG-ODN 2007 showed lower mortality rate compared with the fish that did not receive treatment. The survival rates of CpG-ODN 2007-treated group and PBS-treated group were 85% and 57.9%, respectively. In addition, our in vitro results demonstrated that CpG-ODN 2007 can effectively reduce the toxicity of V. vulnificus (FJ03-X2) to zebrafish embryonic fibroblast (ZF4) cells. Furthermore, we assessed immune-related genes expression patterns in FJ03-X2 infected zebrafish or ZF4 cells with and without CpG-ODN 2007 treatment, such as TLRs and IL-1β. To sum up, our data indicated that CpG-ODN 2007 protects zebrafish against Vibrio vulnificus induced infection.
Biotechnology Institute, Fujian Academy of Agricultural Sciences, High-tech building 1506, Wusi Road 247, Fuzhou 350003, Fujian, China, Email: 695204739{at}qq.com
Email: linchentao{at}fjnu.edu.cn Tel.: +86-591-87817514
The study indicated that CpG-ODN 2007 has protective effects against Vibrio vulnificus infection in zebrafish and may be used as immunomodulator to control bacterial disease of fish.
You are going to email the following CpG-ODN 2007 protects zebrafish against Vibrio vulnificus-induced infection
Struggling to hold on to your sobriety? These tips on what to do when you want to drink will help you stay sober It would be great if cravings for alcohol stopped once you complete rehab, but unfortunately, alcohol addiction doesn't work...
Familiarizing Yourself with Barbiturates Examples According to a report published by the Executive Office of the President of the States (2011), prescription drug abuse is America's fastest-growing drug problem. Although the numbers have decreased for the use of some illegal drugs, such...
Top 3 Most Common Prescription Drugs
Although they are aimed to help you, these top 3 most common prescription drugs can actually be quite dangerous if abused We've all been to the doctor because of an ailment or pain, and we have all been prescribed medications for a...
Halcion abuse affects many, learn the signs and symptoms of abuse to effectively assist in getting someone the help they need Halcion abuse is far too common this day and age. Becoming familiar with benzodiazepines may be advantageous to avoid the trap of...
A guide to understanding The Long-Term Effects of K2 According to The National Institute on Drug Abuse, synthetic cannabinoids are also known as "K2" or "spice", refers to man-made, mind-altering chemicals that are sprayed onto materials similar to the marijuana plant in order...
Understanding Synthetic Marijuana Side Effects
Familiarizing Yourself with Synthetic Marijuana Side Effects Synthetic marijuana side effects have proven to be deadly. Since spice (synthetic marijuana) has only recently emerged on the drug scene, research to measure how it affects the brain has only just begun. If you...
View the detox timeline and learn how to get coke out of your system. Although it is sometimes used by health care providers for its anesthetic properties, cocaine is primarily an illegal, stimulant drug that is extremely addictive. If you are wondering...
Find out how many of the top 10 most common drugs are within reach in your home. Even drugs that are legally obtained can be addictive and dangerous. There are several harmful substances that can be found in most common households that...
Top 7 Most Abused Recreational Drugs
Curious about illegal drugs and their effects? WhiteSands Treatment fills you in on the top seven most abused recreational drugs. Drug abuse is still a relentless problem in the U.S. and many adolescents and young adults are being drawn to try more...
A Discussion on Tampa Sober Living Homes. One option for recovering drug addicts who need further assistance after a rehab program is a sober living home. Tampa sober living homes facilitate an environment where like-minded individuals can get to know each other and...
Can You Use Better Help For Free – Guidance from your therapist – HBI Therapy Online
Can You Use Better Help For Free – Guidance from your therapist
Online training encourages therapists on everything. Can You Use Better Help For Free… from utilizing emojis to avoiding misinterpretations. They also need to safeguard patients' personal information– an issue that has actually caused debate in the United States, where big online treatment platforms have actually come under the spotlight.
Buckley stated clients need to examine services' privacy policies before signing up. "Not all online counselling websites utilize professionally trained therapists or follow a principles policy, so ask your GP for a recommendation in the very first instance. As with all sort of services and support, what works for one person may not work for another person," he said.
Marc Bush, chief policy advisor at Young Minds, said that while online counselling services are important, "they shouldn't replace in person treatment with a skilled professional. If a young person is having a hard time, we would motivate them to talk to their GP in the first instance, or to call a recognized service like The Mix, Childline or the Samaritans.".
" I'm a big fan of using technology in all areas of my life as a service to everyday issues. I have apps for everything, however when it pertains to psychological health, you need to select how technology contributes in your recovery extremely carefully.". Can You Use Better Help For Free
Rather, the app prides itself on having actually certified therapists and mental health experts available to assist individuals through text, phone call or video chat. That's what numerous YouTubers who have accepted sponsorships from the company frequently state in their own videos, where they speak on the stresses in their individual lives and sensations verging on stress and anxiety or anxiety. Bobby Burns, Elle Mills, Philip DeFranco, Heath Hussar, Boogie2988, Shane Dawson and ChandlerNWilson are all developers who have Can You Use Better Help For Free sponsors now.
A number of these creators have spoken about psychological health concerns in the past, but as burnout becomes a bigger subject within the neighborhood– and mainstream world– sponsorships including BetterHelp have increased, despite the app not being precisely what the developers are touting.
Thanks to opposable thumbs, our hands are capable of great feats, from writing and typing, to knitting sweaters, to building homes, to holding other hands. With the wide range of activities our hands perform, it’s no wonder that hand and wrist injuries are so common, and so debilitating. When you experience hand or wrist pain or injury, you want immediate relief. The qualified and experienced physicians at Sioux Falls Orthopedics are the orthopedic hand and wrist specialist Sioux Falls residents need to relieve pain and return to everyday activities.
At Sioux Falls Orthopedics, our board-certified hand and wrist orthopedic surgeons are more than capable of providing the comprehensive care you need to regain use of your most vital extremities. Whether you need hand surgery, wrist surgery, rehabilitative care, or all of the above, you’ll receive the customized and compassionate care you deserve throughout diagnosis, treatment, and recovery.
Are you experiencing numbness, tingling, swelling, throbbing, pain, or grinding sensations in your hand, wrist, or arm? Are you unable to straighten or bend your fingers or your wrist? These common symptoms could result from a variety of injuries or disorders, and the specialists at Sioux Falls Orthopedics are prepared to help you face them head-on.
Arthritis can affect bones and joints throughout the body, and causes could be as simple as age and heredity. However, wear and tear to cartilage from the ends of bones can also contribute to and exacerbate the condition, and considering how much we use our thumbs, it’s no surprise that arthritis of the thumb is so common.
A major nerve runs through the narrow carpal tunnel in the wrist and into the hand, and when it becomes compressed, patients can experience symptoms like numbness, tingling, and pain in the fingers, the hand, and the arm. Carpal Tunnel Syndrome is often caused by repetitive motion, which means it could result from activities ranging from typing, to sewing, to kneading dough, to playing an instrument, just for example. Wrist fractures and other trauma can also be responsible for this common condition.
The ulnar nerve, more commonly referred to as the funny bone, can suffer from stress or pressure that causes tingling, weakness, numbness, or pain to radiate down the arm and into the hand and fingers. This is known as cubital tunnel syndrome.
Characterized by inflammation of the tendons at the base of the thumb, this condition could cause patients to experience pain on the thumb side of the wrist when turning the wrist, making a fist, or grasping items. The causes of this condition are unclear, but it can be exacerbated by repetitive motion.
This deformity of the hand can take years to develop, and although it is painless, it can affect the function of the hand. This is because the condition causes fibrous connective tissue to develop, forming knots under the skin of the hand that can cause the fingers (mainly the ring and pinky fingers, although all could be affected) to contract, or bend.
Because we use our hands for so many purposes, they are often in harm’s way. In addition to common repetitive motion injuries, fractures of the hand, wrist, or fingers can occur in the course of your work, activities like sports, or even everyday life. If you suffer from pain, swelling, and other symptoms that could indicate a fracture, you need to seek immediate diagnosis and treatment.
When you’re in need of an orthopedic hand doctor for any type of injury or condition that causes pain or affects functionality, the specialists at Sioux Falls Orthopedics are ready to deliver the expert diagnosis, advice, and care you need to regain function and alleviate pain. Contact us at 605-336-2638 today for more information and to schedule an appointment.
Home Health & Hospice Services | Dare County, NC
Our Units-
Home Health & Hospice Services-
Dare Home Health & Dare Hospice are programs of the Dare County Department of Health & Human Services which provide in-home, medical services and hospice support services to residents of Dare County. We are dedicated to providing comprehensive, compassionate and quality services to our clients.
We are Medicare Certified, licensed by the State of North Carolina and accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Healthcare, Inc. We offer a wide variety of health and supportive services for patients ranging in age from newborn infants to elderly persons.
Available regardless of ability to pay
Centered around the patient's needs, priorities, and values
Committed to ensuring physical, emotional, , and spiritual comfort
Services are paid for by Medicare, Medicaid, and most private insurances.
For those eligible, services are available, regardless of ability to pay.
Working together we deliver uniquely tailored, high quality, and compassionate care to support our patients, their families and the community we serve. Our staff members are part of the community and familiar with local resources. Care is provided by our experienced, certified and dedicated team including registered nurses, medical social workers, physical therapists, occupational therapists, speech-language pathologists, nutritionists, bereavement counselors, chaplains, hospital medical directors, certified nursing assistants, as well as other professionals and volunteers.
Our agency was recognized as 2014, 2015 Home Care Elite, an annual compilation of the most successful home care providers in the United States.
As a We Honor Veterans partner, our agency is able to assess and enhance our ability to serve Veterans by using resources provided by the campaign and integrating best practices for providing end-of-life care.
Home Health Services include but are not limited to:
People of any age who have had a recent illness, injury, or surgical intervention that requires rehabilitative services such as physical, occupational, or speech therapy
Individuals who require home infusion therapy for antibiotics or other medications
Post-surgical patients who require personal care and/or assistance and education
Seniors who need assistance with disease management and education
Home Health care can begin after a hospital stay or visit to the physician, if your physician determines that home health services are needed.
In order to receive our home health services, the patient must be homebound. Once eligibility has been determined a referral is made by your physician to Dare Home Health.
Our skilled and dedicated staff will visit you in your home setting to evaluate your needs. An overall care plan will be developed with you, your loved ones, caregivers, and your physician. All home health services are supervised by a registered nurse or physical therapist to ensure that your health needs are being met.
Respite Care is offered to provide temporary relief to those caring for someone who might otherwise require placement in a facility. Our dedicated volunteers offer support in the home to allow the caregiver time to engage in other activities in order that they can return to their roles as a caregiver feeling refreshed.
Hospice is specialized care designed to provide support to you and your loved ones during a terminal illness. Hospice is not about dying, it is about living each day to the fullest and focusing on quality of life. It is centered on the belief that everyone has the right to die with dignity and without pain, and it focuses on caring for, and not curing, the life-limiting process.
Hospice supports family caregivers in providing care. This care can be provided in a variety of settings, including home, assisted-living facilities, nursing homes, and hospitals.
Addressing and managing pain, nausea, and other symptoms
Assistance with personal care, hygiene, and support with home tasks
Coordinating the acquiring of medications and equipment for safety and comfort
Helping patients and their families make final arrangements
Hospice care can begin once a patient's physician determines that the patient has a terminal illness with a life expectancy of six months or less and when the patient and family decide not to pursue further curative treatment. Once medical need has been established, the decision to begin hospice care involves the patient, physician, loved ones and caregivers.
We offer a free, on-going grief support group to all Dare County residents who have experienced the loss of a loved one. Funding for this program is provided by Interfaith Community Outreach, Outer Banks Community Foundation and Dare Hospice.
We are committed to providing information, education, and resources to help those who are going through a period of bereavement. We provide grief support for up to a year following the death of a patient we have served.
Dare Hospice Volunteer Program
The spirit of hospice volunteering comes from a genuine desire to provide comfort, peace, and care to patients facing the end of life process. Hospice volunteers play a vital role in Dare Hospice. Our volunteers have a positive impact on the lives of the patients they serve and are a necessary part of our team.
Volunteering is linked to greater levels of satisfaction and well-being. Caring for others has also been found to lead to happiness and fulfillment. Volunteering with Dare Hospice is an excellent opportunity to give back to the community while receiving both benefits.
Volunteers are able to contribute in a variety of ways from - keeping patients company when family and friends are not able to be there, to helping with Dare Hospice administrative work. Our Volunteers help us assure a high level of patient care.
Patient Care Volunteer duties can include:
Providing comfort and support by just being present
Allowing the patient's caregiver to go on their errands and other daily tasks
Administrative Volunteer duties can include:
Our hospice volunteer training is free of charge. If you are interested, please contact the Volunteer Coordinator for Dare Hospice at 252.475.5028.
Effect of topical insulin on cutaneous wound healing in rats with or without acute diabetes. - PubMed - NCBI
1 selected item: 19594766
Clin Exp Dermatol. 2010 Mar;35(2):180-5. doi: 10.1111/j.1365-2230.2009.03419.x. Epub 2009 Jul 6.
Apikoglu-Rabus S1, Izzettin FV, Turan P, Ercan F.
Faculty of Pharmacy, Clinical Pharmacy Department, Marmara University, Istanbul, Turkey. sulerabus@yahoo.com
Diabetes is a condition known even in its early stages to impair the normal course of wound healing, thus leading to chronic wounds. The role of insulin in the regulation of energy metabolism, protein synthesis, cell differentiation and growth suggests that this hormone could also play an essential role in regulation of wound healing.
To determine the effects of topical insulin administration on wound healing in rats with or without acute diabetes.
This study was conducted using four groups of male Sprague-Dawley rats: (i) nondiabetic rats receiving topical insulin (n = 7), (ii) nondiabetic rats receiving topical sterile water (n = 7), (iii) diabetic rats receiving topical insulin (n = 7) and (iv) diabetic rats receiving topical sterile water (n = 7). Wound healing was assessed by wound contraction rate, complete epithelialization time and histological results.
Topical insulin enhanced wound healing by shortening the time needed for complete epithelialization in both the nondiabetic and acute diabetic groups. The histological observations supported the planimetric results in both groups.
This study revealed that topical insulin application to cutaneous wounds accelerates wound healing in rats with or without acute diabetes.
1517 The Clinical Features and Outcomes of Moyamoya Disease in a Medical Center in Taiwan | Archives of Disease in Childhood
1517 The Clinical Features and Outcomes of Moyamoya Disease in a Medical Center in Taiwan
CF Hu,
HC Fan,
Department of Pediatrics, Tri-Service General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan R.O.C.
Background and Aims To describe the clinical features and outcomes of patients with moyamoya disease (MMD) who received surgical or medical treatment at a single institute in Taiwan.
Methods From August 2004 to September 2010, medical charts of patients with MMD (ICD-9 code: 437.5) from a medical institute in Taiwan were reviewed. Demographic and clinical characteristics, cerebral imaging files and follow-up information, and outcome were analyzed.
Results There were total 46 patients with MMD enrolled in this study. Male versus female ratio was 21 versus 25 (=1:1.2). Ages ranged from 1 to 84 year-old with the peak incidence in the 31–40 year age group (12 cases). The incidence of cerebral ischemic infarction was 75.0% (6/8) in the pediatric group, and 60.5% (23/38) in adult group; haemorrhagic stroke was 1.3% (1/8) in pediatric group and 26.3% (10/38) in adult group. Symptoms, included paralysis (76.1%; 35/46), consciousness change (34.8%; 16/46), headache (17.4%; 8/46), numbness (17.4%; 8/46), and seizure (17.4%; 8/46). A regression analysis showed that the outcome of patients with MMD was negatively related to a modified Suzuki's score (p<0.05).
Abstract 1517 Figure 1
Glasgow outcome scale v.s modified Suzuki's score
Abstract 1517 Table 1
Image modality and stroke type in a medical center
Abstract 1517 Table 2
Surgical rate and Glasgow outcome scale
Conclusions MMD is commonly found in the Asian area, including Japan, Korea and Taiwan. However, the outcomes of patients with MMD are unpredictable. In this study, we found that the severity of MMD might be correlated with the scores of modified Suzuki's grading system. Therefore, the more the scores patients with MMD acquire, the higher risks of infarction will possibly occur in them.
For your convenience, www.challiance.org provides information and web links on our website. By clicking on this link, you will be leaving www.challiance.org and entering a website hosted by another party.
CHA is not responsible for the content or functions of these third party websites. By visiting this site, you will no longer be subject to, or under the protection of, the privacy and security policies of www.challiance.org. We encourage you to review the privacy and security policies of the site you are entering, which may be different than those of www.challiance.org.
Continue Cancel
Home
Academics
Psychiatry
Adult Psychiatry Residency
Training in Psychiatry
Training in the Department of Psychiatry
Featured Pages
Adult Psychiatry Residency
Child & Adolescent Psychiatry Fellowship
Consultation-Liaison Psychiatry Fellowship
Geriatric Psychiatry Fellowship
Psychiatry Clinical Nurse Training
Continuing Education Programs
Psychology Training Programs
Social Work Training
Diversity in Academics
We are delighted to know of your interest in training at the Department of Psychiatry. Extensive clinical, educational, and research opportunities can be found anywhere in our five inpatient units and in our network of community-based outpatient services that provide more than 100,000 visits a year.
Like all components of Cambridge Health Alliance, we strive to provide patient-centered, evidence-based care in a system devoted to improving the health of the communities we serve. As an appointing department of Harvard Medical School, we have a diverse and vibrant faculty that has established a standard of excellence in teaching, recognized throughout the nation.
Building on the groundbreaking approach to healthcare reform in the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, our clinical system has begun an effort to become an Accountable Care Organization based on the model of a patient-centered medical home.
Our educational programs are rooted in the diverse clinical and public health services we provide, and always reflect the energy and dedication that fuel our entire system of care. Both clinical and didactic components of the programs have the goal of stimulating professional and personal growth. We on the faculty valued the training we received, so we recognize the impact that teachers have on the careers of their students and trainees. Our expectations are high, and we know that yours are as well. We want all of our trainees to achieve their maximum potential, so we emphasize personal supervision and individual instruction throughout the training program.
Thank you again for your interest in our Department. Any of the faculty, staff, or trainees would be happy to provide more information or answer questions that you may have.
WHF Fitness Genes - Enduro 24
Womens Health and Fitness - Fitness Genes
Earlier this year, I entered a competition with Women's Health and Fitness magazine. I didn't really think much about it and just thought I would give it a go. Some time went past, and I had forgotten that I entered, and then I received an email to confirm that I was one of 25 women chosen to participate, I didnt really know that much about it, and didnt even realise its part of a challenge.
I have always been a little bit fascinated by these types of results, and wondered if my genes do affect my ability to add muscle, lose weight, gain weight etc, but would never of thought about actually having it done, so I have found myself in a really good situation in which WHF have given me the opportunity to have it done.
I received a package in the post, in which I opened up excitedly, I had to spit in a little tube and send it back to WHF, whom then sent it off to be tested. I have been waiting patiently for the results. Now that I have them, I am trying to decipher them. Some things on there make a lot of sense, either that or I am trying to find ways of making it relate to me. According to my results I have a tendency to store body fat easily (I am sure some of my family members could relate to this), I also have a gene that exhibits more loss of control when eating (may explain the binge eating and why I am always hungry). I also have a gene for endurance exercises which is quite fascinating considering the sports I love to do.
Below I have listed my results, mainly for me to refer back to but also for those that maybe interested in having it done. Be warned there is a lot of info ;)
ACE - ​A GENE FOR ENDURANCE
One copy of a particular version of the ACE gene has been found more often in elite endurance athletes, and every climber tested to date who has ascended over 8,000m. Your FitnessGenes result tells you whether you carry this endurance version, the alternative power/strength version or both.
YOUR RESULT: ID
You have one copy of the 'endurance' I allele and one copy of the 'power/strength' D allele.
With one copy of each allele and an intermediate level of ACE protein produced as a result, individuals with the ID genotype are likely to have a good balance of endurance and strength. They show improved endurance ability in response to training over the DD genotype and greater improvements in 'strength endurance' compared with the II genotype. This could be the optimal genotype for middle-distance runners, cyclists, and rowers, although elite athletes in both endurance and power events are often found with this genotype.
ACTN3 - A GENE FOR SPEED
​ACTN3 is the world's most famous 'gene for speed'. This gene encodes for α-actinin-3, a protein that has been linked to greater baseline strength, a protective effect against muscle damage, and an increase in fast-twitch muscle fibres. One particular version of ACTN3 has been found in almost every Olympic sprinter ever tested. Your FitnessGenes result will tell you if you carry the 'sprinter' version, the version linked to endurance or both.
YOUR RESULT: RR
You have two copies of the 'sprinter' R allele.
Carriers of the R allele produce plenty of alpha-actinin-3, a protein which is associated with a 'boost' in muscle strength and performance. This boost is possibly due to an increase in the overall size and number of fast-twitchmuscle fibres. As a result, RR is a genotype commonly found in elite speed/power athletes.
ACVR1B - A GENE FOR MUSCLE STRENGTH
The muscle growth limiting protein myostatin (as explained in the MSTN gene report) is affected by a protein encoded by the ACVR1B gene. One variation of ACVR1B has been associated with increased strength.
YOUR RESULT: AA
You have two copies of the 'increased muscle strength' A allele.
Your ACVR1B genotype has been linked to increased muscle strength. However, the effect of this gene is still relatively unexplored, and there are many other factors and genes which can affect muscle strength more significantly.
ADRB2_1 - A GENE FOR ADRENALINE SIGNALLINGThe fight-or-flight hormone, adrenaline, functions as a signalling molecule by binding to a protein coded for by the ADBR2 gene (beta-2 adrenergic receptor). This receptor plays a key role in skeletal muscle, cardiovascular, respiratory, metabolic and hormonal systems. ADRB2_1 genetic variations are related to levels of the ADBR2 receptor.
YOUR RESULT: AG
You have one copy of the 'lower levels of beta-2 adrenergic receptor' A alleleand one copy of the 'higher levels of beta-2 adrenergic receptor' G allele.
Your genotype has been associated with lower levels of this receptor than the GG genotype. This may lower your ability to deliver oxygen to the blood and working muscles.
ADRB2_2 - A GENE FOR ADRENALINE SIGNALLING
​The fight-or-flight hormone, adrenaline, functions as a signalling molecule by binding to a protein coded for by the ADBR2 gene (beta-2 adrenergic receptor). This receptor plays a key role in skeletal muscle, cardiovascular, respiratory, metabolic and hormonal systems. The ADRB2_2 genetic variations are associated with obesity and the effect of weight loss interventions.
YOUR RESULT: CC
You have two copies of the 'lower fat breakdown/loss' allele
You have two copies of the 'lower fat loss/breakdown' allele which may influence how easily you can lose fat.
AGT - A GENE FOR BLOOD PRESSURE REGULATION
​The protein angiotensinogen, which is produced by the AGT gene, is one of the initial components of a system which helps regulate blood pressure. It also has associations with skeletal and cardiac muscle growth. Your FitnessGenes result indicates your angiotensinogen levels, susceptibility to develop high blood pressure and the impact on strength/power performance.
YOUR RESULT: TT
You have two copies of the 'average angiotensin level' T allele.
Your genotype, TT, is associated with average angiotensin levels and a lower risk of developing high blood pressure compared to other genotypes. However, this association with blood pressure is largely influenced by environmental factors such as dietary sodium intake and fat mass.
AKT1 - A GENE ASSOCIATED WITH AEROBIC EXERCISE RESPONSE
​The AKT1 gene codes for an enzyme related to muscle building and metabolism. Some of us carry a particular version of this gene that is linked to better resting metabolic factors and greater increases in VO2 max in response to aerobic exercise. Your FitnessGenes result tells you which version of this gene you carry.
YOUR RESULT: GG
You have two copies of the 'average metabolic levels' G allele.
The GG genotype is linked to a more effective response to aerobic training than those who are T carriers, with better improvements in insulin and glucose levels. The G allele is also linked to greater strength gains.
AMPD1 - A GENE FOR ENERGY PRODUCTION
AMPD is an enzyme that plays a role in anaerobic capacity and leads to fast accumulation of lactate after sprint exercises. We test for a genetic variation (AMPD1) that has been linked to different levels of this enzyme. One variation leads to lower levels of AMPD and has been found less frequently in strength/power athletes.
You have two copies of the 'higher AMPD activity' allele.
Your genotype is more commonly seen within power / sprint athletes although GG individuals may also have slower recovery rates post-exercise.
APOA2 - A GENE FOR RESPONSE TO SATURATED FAT INTAKE
​The APOA2 gene codes for a protein that is thought to play a role in fat metabolism, insulin sensitivity and obesity. A variation in this gene has been associated with a larger response to saturated fat intake and obesity.
​You have one copy of the 'greater sensitivity to saturated fat' and one copy of the 'lower sensitivity to saturated fat' allele.
You have one copy of the allele associated with greater sensitivity to saturated fat intake and a higher BMI and one copy of the allele associated with lower sensitivity to saturated fat intake and a lower BMI.
APOA5 - A GENE FOR BLOOD TRIGLYCERIDE LEVELS
The APOA5 gene codes for the APOA5 molecule. This molecule plays an important role in regulating blood triglyceride levels. FitnessGenes test for a variation of the APOA5 gene which affect levels of the APOA5 molecule in the blood and suggest some dietary choices to control blood triglyceride levels.
​You have one copy of the 'average triglyceride levels' A allele and one copy of the G allele, linked to higher average levels of triglycerides.
You have one copy of the G allele and this has been linked to an increased risk of higher blood triglyceride levels when high amounts of polyunsaturated fats are consumed.
BDKRB2 - A GENE FOR VASCULAR FUNCTION
​Widening of the blood vessels and therefore blood flow and blood pressure is regulated, amongst other things, by a molecule called bradykinin. Bradykinin binds to the bradykinin receptor (a protein encoded by the BDKRB2 gene). Different variants of this gene lead to lower or higher expression of this receptor and are associated with hypertension risk and also with endurance athletes.
YOUR RESULT: CT
You have one copy of the 'increased high blood pressure risk' C allele.
Although those with your genotype were found to be at increased risk of high blood pressure, remember this is a trait which is largely affected by your weight, environment, diet and lifestyle and your genotype does not mean that you are will or do suffer from this.
CKM - A GENE RELATED TO MUSCLE ENERGY
​Creatine kinase, encoded by the CKM gene, is an enzyme which influences the energy systems used in your cells. Your FitnessGenes result tells you whether you carry a CKM genotype that is found more commonly in endurance or strength athletes. CKM levels are also related to the ability to process oxygen which is important for speed and endurance.
You have two copies of the 'endurance athlete and increased VO2 max' T allele.
Research has shown that your CKM genotype was more frequently found in endurance athletes and that those with your genotype may have a greater endurance training response seen through an improvement of VO2 max. VO2max (maximal rate of oxygen uptake) is a measure of cardio-respiratory endurance. Your genotype may lead to low creatine kinase activity, which is advantageous for endurance performance.
CLOCK - A GENE AFFECTING SLEEP CYCLE
​Sleep duration and quality can affect many things, including muscle recovery, muscle building, weight loss, athletic performance, learning and cognition. Many gene variants have been reported to affect the sleep cycle or the circadian clock. At FitnessGenes, we test for the Circadian Locomotor Output Cycles Kaput (Clock) gene. Your result tells you whether you do or don't carry any genetic variants associated with a disturbed circadian rhythm and whether you are likely to be a night owl, morning lark or somewhere in between.
You have two copies of the T allele and are more likely to be an early bird.
Based on your genetic result, you have a low likelihood of developing or having a disturbed circadian rhythm. Therefore, chances are smaller that your sleep pattern interferes with muscle recovery or weight loss goals compared to other genotypes. At the read more section you find tips to optimize your sleep quality and when to train - based on the time you wake up.
CNTF - A GENE FOR NERVE ACTIVITY
​Ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) is a protein which functions mainly in the nervous system. It is involved in neurotransmitter synthesis and nerve growth as well as protecting against inflammation. Variations in the CNTF gene affect the levels of CNTF protein and are associated with body composition and strength gains.
You have two copies of the 'normal CNTF levels' G allele.
Your genotype leads to normal CNTF levels. This is associated with higher strength values, particularly in women. However, this association has only been found when you have a healthy and active lifestyle.
CYP1A2 - A GENE FOR CAFFEINE METABOLISM
​Caffeine has been used by athletes for a long time as a performance-enhancing drug. Studies have shown that taking caffeine improves performance in sports and exercise. Your FitnessGenes result tells you which caffeine-clearing molecule you carry and how long you can expect it to take for caffeine to be removed from the bloodstream.
You have two copies of the 'fast metaboliser' A allele, and are characterised as a fast caffeine metaboliser.
This means that certain lifestyle factors have the effect of speeding up your caffeine metabolism. If you have this genotype and you consume lots of caffeine (more than 3 cups of coffee a day), smoke, live in a polluted area, or if you consume lots of leafy green veg, then the rate at which caffeine is cleared from your system increases.
FOLATE - GENES THAT IMPACT HOMOCYSTEINE LEVELS
​Folate, or folic acid, is usually something we associate with pregnant women, but might it have important consequences for you too? The role of folate in red blood cell production and tissue repair makes it a particularly important vitamin for athletes, bodybuilders and fitness enthusiasts. Folate deficiency can also increase homocysteine levels in the blood, which is an indicator of certain health issues. Your FitnessGenes result tells you whether you carry any genetic variations which affect the folate pathways in your body.
YOUR COMBINED GENOTYPE FOR THE MTHFR, MTR AND MTRR GENES IS MTHFR AA, MTR AA AND MTRR AA
You are at relatively LOW RISK for mild to moderate increases in homocysteinelevels.
You have a genotype for MTHFR which, combined with your genotype for both MTR and MTRR, puts you at relatively LOW RISK for high homocysteine levels. High homocysteine levels increase in the blood as a result of reduced enzymeactivity in the folate and methionine cycles. Therefore, with the exception of pregnancy, it is unlikely you will require any additional supplementation as long as you consume the daily recommended intake of 0.4mg of folate in your diet.
FTO - A GENE FOR APPETITE
​Genetics is known to influence food cravings, with carriers of a particular version of the FTO gene seemingly biologically wired to eat more and feel hungrier sooner. In ancient humanity, where food was scarce, this is likely to have been a straightforward survival mechanism, but it becomes problematic in a modern world with easy access to high-energy foods. Your FitnessGenes result will tell you whether you have any copies of the FTO gene linked to increased appetite.
You have two copies of the 'increased obesity risk' A allele.
Those with two copies of the A allele weigh about 3kg (6.6lb) more on average than those with no copies. Research has shown that carriers of the A allelehave an increased appetite and exhibit more loss of control when eating compared to those with the TT genotype.
HERC2 - A GENE FOR EYE COLOUR
​Eye, hair and skin colour vary around the world because of the production of a pigment called melanin. One gene in particular, HERC2, is one of the genes responsible for melanin production and its effect can be seen directly from your eye colour. Your FitnessGenes result tells you which version of this gene you carry and what level of melanin you are likely to produce as a result.
You have a copy of the 'brown eye' A allele and a copy of the 'blue eye' G allele.
Associated with intermediate levels of melanin on average, this genotype gives you on average a 54% chance of green eyes, 40% chance of brown eyes and 6% chance of blue eyes.
HIF1A - A GENE FOR RESPONSE TO LOW OXYGEN
​The body uses several proteins to deal with conditions of low oxygen, one of them is HIF1a (coded by the HIF1a gene). HIF1a controls the activation of genes affecting glucose processing, metabolism, and the formation of red blood cells and blood vessels. One variant of this genewas found more frequently in weightlifters, while the other was found more frequently in elite endurance athletes and was associated with a higher increase in VO2 max through aerobic exercise training.
You have two copies of the 'increased VO2 max response and endurance' allele.
You have two copies of the C allele; this has been linked to elite endurance status and more pronounced improvements in VO2 max.
IGF1 - A GENE FOR REGULAR GROWTH/DEVELOPMENT
​The IGF1 gene influences circulating levels of the IGF1 hormone which is necessary for muscle growth and development. Variants have been associated with benefits for strength performance. We test for two variations of the IGF1 gene (IGF1 and IGF1_2), which code for the same protein, but have a slightly different effect on the protein's function, and ultimately on the physical trait of performance. Your FitnessGenes result will identify how your circulating IGF1 levels are affected and how this impacts on these traits.
You have two copies of the 'average circulating IGF1 levels' G allele.
Normal circulating IGF1 levels are associated with this genotype along with lower baseline strength and response to resistance training. You could also be at a slightly elevated risk of weight gain if a healthy lifestyle is not adopted.
IGF1_2 - A GENE FOR NORMAL GROWTH/DEVELOPMENT
​The IGF1 gene influences circulating levels of the IGF1 hormone which is necessary for muscle growth and development. We test for two variations of the IGF1 gene (IGF1 and IGF1_2), which code for the same protein, but have a slightly different effect on the protein's function, and ultimately on the physical trait of performance. Your FitnessGenes result for IGF1_2 will identify how your circulating IGF1 levels are affected and how this impacts you.
You have two copies of the 'average circulating IGF1 levels' T allele.
Your genotype is associated with average circulating levels of the IGF1, and with a lower maximal force production, which may impair some aspects of power/speed performance.
IGFBP3 - A GENE FOR REGULATING NORMAL GROWTH / DEVELOPMENT
IGF1 (insulin-like growth factor 1), a hormone that promotes cell growth and cell division in both children and adults, is transported through the blood by a molecule called IGF-binding protein 3 (coded by the IGFBP3 gene). It regulates the activity of IGF1 by protecting it against breakdown and preventing it from binding to its receptor. Variations in this gene affect the levels of IGFBP-3 and IGF1 and may affect body composition.
You have two copies of the 'reduced chances of low body fat' C allele.
You have two copies of the C allele which was found to be associated with higher body fat.
IL15RA - A GENE FOR MUSCLE VOLUME
​This gene is linked to the prevention of muscle breakdown as well as lean body mass and can affect how quickly individuals increase their muscle size (hypertrophy). Your FitnessGenes result will tell you whether you have the version associated with muscle size or whether you have the version linked to muscle strength in response to resistance-type training.
YOUR RESULT: AC
You have one copy of the 'muscle hypertrophy' A allele and one copy of the 'muscle strength' C allele.
Carrying at least one copy of the C allele for this genetic variation in the interleukin-15 receptor alpha gene (IL-15Ra) has been linked to increases in strength in response to resistance exercise training, but perhaps paradoxically a lesser increase in muscle size. In contrast, individuals who are AA demonstrate the highest hypertrophic response (increase in muscle size) but present the lowest gains in strength. Based on the evidence to date it appears that when you carry a copy of each allele you tend towards a balanced intermediate of muscle volume to strength.
IL6 - A GENE FOR INFLAMMATION AND RECOVERY
​The cytokine interleukin 6 (IL6, coded by the IL6 gene) is a signalling molecule that is produced in the muscles during exercise. It is thought to be involved in pro- and anti-inflammatory responses and to help nutrient mobilisation and delivery, making it important for performance and recovery. Variations in the IL6 gene can affect levels of IL6. One variation has been associated with power athletes and better body composition.
YOUR RESULT: CG
You have one copy of the 'higher IL6 expression' G allele and one copy of the 'lower IL-6 expression' C allele.
Your genotype was associated with intermediate levels of IL6. The frequency of the G allele is higher within power athletes, indicating your genotype may have benefits for power related performance. However, having the C allele is associated with greater weight gain if not leading a healthy lifestyle.
IL6R - A GENE FOR REGULATING IL6 ACTIVITY
​The IL6R gene codes for the receptor of the interleukin 6 protein (IL6R) which is found on the surface of cells, as well as circulating freely around the body. Due to its mobility, IL6R can influence the activity and function of interleukin 6, a molecule involved in pro- and anti-inflammatory responses. Variations of the IL6R gene have been associated with the metabolic syndrome.
You have one copy of the 'average IL6 receptor expression' A allele and one copy of the 'higher IL6 receptor expression' C allele.
Your genotype may be associated with a slightly higher risk of obesity and metabolic syndrome compared to other genotypes.
LCT - A GENE FOR LACTOSE TOLERANCE
​Lactose tolerance is the ability to digest the lactose in milk and other everyday dairy products. For the majority of people, tolerance for lactose decreases after infancy, often falling away completely during adulthood. However, for others, due to a genetic variant in their DNA, they are able to continue to tolerate lactose indefinitely. Your FitnessGenes result will tell you whether you are genetically able to tolerate lactose.
You have one copy of the 'lactose tolerant' T allele, and are likely genetically lactose tolerant.
You carry one copy of the genetic variation associated with the ability to digest lactose into adulthood and as a result your genetic lactase switch is most likely set to 'on'. Individuals who carry one copy of the T allele, as opposed to two, have been found to have intermediate levels of lactase activity. This means that while they are able to effectively break down lactose, they can be more susceptible to lactose intolerance at times of stress or gastrointestinal infection.
MCT1 - A GENE FOR FATIGUE
​Variations in this gene will alter the expression of MCT1 which allows the clearance of lactic acid. This determines the onset of fatigue when exercising. Your FitnessGenes result tells you whether you carry the fast version, slow version or both versions of the lactic acid clearing gene. This will determine how quickly lactic acid accumulates during exercise.
You have two copies of the 'slow lactic acid clearing' T allele.
Carriers of the T allele have lower levels of MCT1, with as great a decline as 60% seen. This will reduce the capacity of the muscles to process lactic acid, allowing it to accumulate faster and leading to premature onset of fatigue. Despite it's link to poor fatigue resistance, research has shown this genotypeto be most commonly found in sprinters compared to endurance athletes which may be due to lactate activating hypertrophic signalling pathways.
MSTN - A GENE FOR HYPERTROPHY
​Skeletal muscle growth in response to training is determined by genetics, and a rare version of the MSTN gene, which encodes the muscle-limiting protein myostatin, is associated with much greater muscle mass and strength. Your FitnessGenes result tells you which version of this geneyou have and how this affects muscle building in response to training.
YOUR RESULT: KK
You have two copies of the 'normal myostatin' K allele.
Over 87% of the population carries the KK genotype, which is associated with normal baseline levels of myostatin. As well as response to resistance training, studies have also indicated that myostatin may play a role in tendon structure (tendons are required for 'explosive' power, such as jumping).
MSTNRARE - A GENE FOR UNUSUAL MUSCLE SIZE AND STRENGTH
Skeletal muscle growth is influenced by genetics and myostatin is a protein that can inhibit it. A very rare variation of the gene coding for myostatin (MSTN) results in a complete knock out (loss of function) of the gene, and results in an unusually greater muscle mass and strength. We called this polymorphism the MSTNRARE gene. Your FitnessGenes result tells you whether you have carry the rare myostatin knock-out allele.
You have two copies of the 'average myostatin level' G allele.
Not surprisingly, as the presence of the knock out mutation is extremely rare, you do not carry any copies of the very rare genetic variant. You probably already know that as you weren't born with unusually big and strong muscles
NOS3 - A GENE FOR BLOOD FLOW
​Nitric oxide synthase 3 (coded by the NOS3 gene) is an enzyme that facilitates the production of nitric oxide (NO). NO is involved in the widening of blood vessels by relaxation of the smooth muscle cells within their walls, which increases blood flow. Variations in the NOS3 gene may affect the predisposition for power/strength performance. These variations may also influence the beneficial effects induced by exercise, such as a lowering of blood triglycerides levels.
You have one copy of the 'reduced NOS3' C allele and one copy of the 'power/strength' T allele.
Since you have a copy of each of the alleles, you may get the benefits of both; having the T allele results in a higher NOS3 expression and activity than CC genotypes. Power/strength athletes were also more likely to carry the T allelecompared to endurance athletes and non-athlete controls. On the other hand, having the C allele may also be more favorable for reducing blood pressure (in people with high blood pressure) and for lowering blood triglycerides in response to exercise compared to TT individuals.
PGC1A - A GENE FOR AEROBIC CAPACITY
​As well as being a marker for good health, having a high aerobic capacity enables your body to work harder during prolonged exercise. Some of us are lucky enough to have a naturally high aerobic capacity due to our genes. A variation in the PGC1A gene is associated with greater baseline aerobic fitness. Your FitnessGenes result tells you which version of this gene you have and how it affects you.
YOUR RESULT: SS
You have two copies of the 'improved gains' S allele.
Associated with lower baseline levels of PGC1A protein, the S allele has been found to be less frequent in world-class endurance athletes, which suggests this genotype may impair aerobic capacity, although it does not affect ability to perform in power-based sports. Regular aerobic exercise is particularly beneficial to the health of SS individuals.
PPARA - A GENE FOR FAT BURNING
​The ability to switch use fats as fuel over carbohydrates combined with the distribution of fast and slow-twitch muscle fibres are both important factors affecting endurance performance. The PPARA protein plays a role in these. Your FitnessGenes result tells you whether you have a version of PPARA that is predominant in endurance athletes, power/speed athletes or both.
You have two copies of the 'fat-burning' G allele.
A common genotype in elite endurance athletes, GG individuals have higher levels of PPARA protein in their skeletal muscles on average. As PPARA turns on genes that shift our metabolism to more energy-efficient fat burning, this genotype is perfect for those undertaking endurance-oriented activities.
PPARG - A GENE ASSOCIATED WITH FAT AND CARB PROCESSING
The PPARG protein is a receptor involved in fat storage and glucose metabolism. Variants of the PPARG gene have been associated with insulin sensitivity, response to saturated fatty acid (SFA) intake and power based activities.
You have two copies of the 'reduced health risks when obese' allele.
You have a genotype that is less favorable in response to exercise, but more beneficial when you are obese.
UCP2 - A GENE FOR METABOLISM
​Genetic variations in uncoupling proteins are thought to lead to differences in the efficiency of people's metabolism. We test for variations in the UCP2 and UCP3 genes. UCP2 is expressed in many types of cells, amongst them muscle cells, cells of the lymph system and the cells that produce insulin. Your FitnessGenes result tells you which version of UCP2 you have and how you can expect it to affect your metabolism. ​
YOUR RESULT: AV
You have one copy of the 'fast metabolism' A allele and one copy of the 'slow metabolism' V allele.
The V allele is linked to a more efficient metabolism and is found at higher frequencies in elite endurance athletes, while the A allele is linked to a faster metabolism and a lower risk of weight gain, particularly if combined with exercise. As you carry a copy of each, you are likely to have a metabolic rate intermediate between AA and VV genotypes.
UCP3 - A GENE FOR METABOLISM
​Genetic variations in uncoupling proteins are thought to lead to differences in the efficiency of people's metabolism. We test for variations in the UCP2 and UCP3 genes. UCP3 is mainly expressed in skeletal muscles and is involved in fatty acid metabolism and protecting cells from oxidative damage.
You have one copy of the 'lower metabolic rate' G allele and one copy of the 'higher metabolic rate' A allele.
Your genotype has been associated with high UCP3 expression, lower body mass index (BMI) and high aerobic capacity.
VEGFA - A GENE FOR BLOOD VESSEL FORMATION
​We test for a variation of the VEGFA gene linked to levels of the VEGFA molecule in the blood. This molecule is involved in forming new blood vessels as an adaptation to training. These new blood vessels increase the blood supply to muscles, which can improve endurance. FitnessGenes tell you whether you have a version of this gene that has been associated with endurance.
You have one copy of the 'increased circulating VEGFA levels' C allele and one copy of the 'lowered circulating VEGFA levels' G allele.
You have one copy of the VEGFA C allele that was found to be more common in endurance athletes.
VDR - A GENE FOR VITAMIN D PROCESSING / ACTIVATION
​Vitamin D influences immunity, bone health and testosterone levels. The vitamin D receptor(coded for by VDR) is important for many processes associated with vitamin D. Variations in the VDR gene that FitnessGenes test for have been associated with skeletal muscle strength.
You have two copies of the C allele which has been associated with lower skeletal muscle strength.
The C allele of your genotype was associated with lower skeletal muscle strength, however since genes work in combination with each other and the environment, this result does not mean that you are unable to have strong muscles.
