Pennington Biomedical Research Center is pleased to announce that John P. Kirwan, Ph.D., is now the new principal investigator of the Louisiana Clinical and Translational Science (LA CaTS) Center. This statewide initiative of Pennington Biomedical is supported in part by U54 GM104940 from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences of the National Institutes of Health, which funds the LA CaTS Center.
Prior to becoming Executive Director of Pennington Biomedical Research Center in January, Dr. Kirwan was director of the Metabolic Translational Research Center and professor of molecular medicine at the Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland, Ohio. In addition, Dr. Kirwan was also a professor of physiology and of nutrition at Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine in Cleveland. His professional expertise includes nearly three decades of research, teaching and service in the obesity and diabetes fields.
Dr. Kirwan received his clinical physiology training at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, Mo.; his Ph.D. in human bioenergetics from Ball State University, Muncie, Ind.; his master's degree in exercise biochemistry from the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Mass.; and his bachelor's degree (Hons) from the University of Limerick, Ireland.
He leads an internationally acclaimed biomedical research program focused on diabetes, obesity, nutrition and exercise. Even before he became principal investigator of the LA Cats Center, he was also PI or Co-Investigator on nine NIH grant. To date Dr. Kirwan has generated more than $35 million in research funding, most which has come from the U.S. National Institutes of Health, and the food, pharmaceutical, and medical device industries. He has published more than 200 scientific papers related to diabetes and metabolism in prestigious peer-reviewed journals including the New England Journal of Medicine, JAMA, Diabetes and Diabetes Care. Among his most important research contributions is the discovery that for a significant number of patients, diabetes can be put into long-term remission by surgically altering the physiology of the intestine and stomach.
###
About the Louisiana Clinical and Translational Science (LA CaTS) Center
The LA CaTS Center is comprised of three primary collaborating institutions in the state, including LSU's Pennington Biomedical Research Center in Baton Rouge, LSU Health Sciences Center in New Orleans, and Tulane University School of Medicine in New Orleans – and also includes six research partners: LSU Health Sciences Center in Shreveport, Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge, and in New Orleans, Xavier University of Louisiana, Children’s Hospital, Ochsner Health System, Southeast Louisiana Veterans Health Care System, and University Medical Center. The LA CaTS Center’s vision for Louisiana encompasses the strengths and capacities unique to each member institution and represents a unified, comprehensive approach for targeting prevention, care and research of chronic diseases in the underserved population. The scholar program is supported in part by U54 GM104940 from the National Institute of General Medical Sciences of the National Institutes of Health which funds the Louisiana Clinical and Translational Science Center. For more information, please visit www.lacats.org.
LA CaTS Center
6400 Perkins Road
Baton Rouge, LA 70808
Phone: 1-844-4LA CaTS
Local: 225-763-3142
Fax: (225) 763-2976
Copyright © LA CaTS Center. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy
The LA CaTS Center is supported through the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Institutional Development Award program,
grant U54 GM104940.
The IDeA-CTR is led by the NIH’s
National Institute of General Medical Sciences (NIGMS).
The content of this website is solely the responsibility of the LA CaTS Center and does not necessarily represent the official views of the NIH.
The CSD is sensitive to details of the underlying population dynamics. Most coalescent approaches take into account only variable population size, such as epidemic prevalence, but not variable birth rates, analogous to epidemic incidence. Such approaches can give misleading results for epidemics. For example, in both susceptible–infected (SI) models (no recovery) and susceptible–infected–susceptible (SIS) models (recovery into the susceptible state), prevalence rapidly approaches an equilibrium. However, a naive coalescent model based on constant population size would erroneously predict identical coalescent patterns in these two cases. In fact, the SIS case is very similar to a standard constant-population size coalescent, but the lineages in an SI epidemic coalesce only during exponential growth, not at equilibrium (Figure S2 and Figure S3).
We observed drastically less precision when estimating recovery rates than when estimating transmission rates. Consequently, decline in prevalence is much harder to detect than growth. This has been observed previously (Lavery et al. 1996) in other biological systems due to differences in the timescale of population change and genetic variation. We nevertheless found that our estimation procedure is robust to misspecification of priors that include zero recovery, and it is feasible to distinguish SI from SIR dynamics (Figure S6, Figure S7, Figure S8, and Figure S9).
In conclusion, coalescent-based estimates of effective population size, such as the generalized skyline, have wide applicability and require minimal consideration of underlying population dynamics. However, in the case that the epidemic dynamics are well understood, the potential is raised for a population genetic model that takes into account the precise effects of transmission and recovery, thereby predicting population dynamics with greater accuracy. We have developed a model that provides a step toward the formal integration of phylodynamics and epidemiology and that can be used to estimate epidemiological and demographic parameters directly from viral sequence data.
Fitting population models to data requires biological simplifications to make the model tractable, which presents the danger of making the model useless for real systems (Wilson et al. 2005). Pathogens require successful reproduction both within and between hosts, whereas we have focused entirely on transmission of lineages to uninfected and immunologically naive hosts. We have not considered biological nuances such as superinfection and recombination or the possibility that different strains will have different epidemiological characteristics. Consequently, there are many ways that our model could be extended and improved.
We have calculated coalescent rates and CSD moments only for the most simple mass-action SIR models. But modern mathematical epidemiology has progressed in the direction of incorporating variable host susceptibility, pathogen virulence, geographical heterogeneity, and host contact network structure. Reproducing our derivations for such models would be a difficult but worthy enterprise.
While we have focused on variable population size in epidemics, a second pillar of phylodynamics concerns the effects of immune selection on viral phylogenies (Grenfell et al. 2004). A major limitation of our approach is that we adopt the standard assumption of selective neutrality. It is unknown how our method would perform for genes under strong immune selection, such as influenza virus hemagglutinin.
We have made a first attempt at a method for fitting arbitrary SIR models to cross-sectional samples of viral sequences. Many challenges remain for increasing the utility of the method. It may be possible to improve estimation of model parameters when historical prevalence data are available. However, it is not known how to discriminate between competing models when only sequence data are available. The estimation theory developed here is based on a fixed genealogy of virus with no uncertainty about branch lengths; in reality there can be a great deal of uncertainty about the structure of the genealogy, and it should be straightforward to generalize the method to account for this (Drummond et al. 2005). Finally, it should also be possible to extend our solutions to heterochronous samples—sequence data collected at multiple time points over the course of an epidemic.
Irene Hall provided estimates of HIV incidence in MSM. The authors acknowledge support from the National Institutes of Health (T32 AI07384, R01 AI47745). S.D.W.F. is supported by a Royal Society Wolfson Research Merit Award. M.J.W. is supported by the Biotechnology and Biological Sciences Research Council.
Pao, D., M. Fisher, S. Hué, G. Dean, G. Murphy et al., 2005 Transmission of HIV-1 during primary infection: relationship to sexual risk and sexually transmitted infections. AIDS 19: 85.
Tavare, S., 1986 Some probabilistic and statistical problems in the analysis of DNA sequences, pp. 57–86 in Lectures on Mathematics in the Life Sciences. American Mathematical Society, Providence, RI.

The 100,000 Genomes Project was mainly funded by the National Institute for Health Research and NHS England. The Wellcome Trust, Cancer Research UK and the Medical Research Council have also generously funded research and infrastructure in the programme.
PD are associated with considerable psychological distress, social problems, functional impairment, and premature mortality (Moran et al. 2016). Clinical guidelines for the management of PD recommend psychotherapy as a first line treatment (Simonsen et al. 2019). In spite of this, individuals with a PD are less likely to seek treatment compared to those with other mental health conditions (Andrews et al. 2001), and particularly those with Cluster A disorders are more likely to reject treatment (Tyrer et al. 2003). Previous studies indicate that PD are highly comorbid with each other (Ekselius et al. 1994; McGlashan et al. 2000) and with other mental health problems (McGlashan et al. 2000). It is likely that frequent comorbidity among personality disorders is an artifact of an imperfect polythetic diagnostic system that assumes the existence of different and discrete types of PDs. This system has been substantially modified more recently, among other reasons because it produces high rates of comorbidity, dropping the different types of categorical PDs in favour of one single diagnosis of PD estimated within a severity continuum (Herpertz et al. 2017). In regards to comorbidity with other mental health problems, PDs are particularly comorbid with major depressive disorder (Corruble et al. 1996). For example, between 40 and 80% of depressed patients have been estimated to have comorbid PD, depending on the treatment setting, with cluster C disorders being most common (Friborg et al. 2014; Hirschfeld 1999; Wongpakaran et al. 2015).
Medication Safety; Medication Errors/Preventable Adverse Drug Events; Quality Improvement Strategies; Culture of Safety; Failure Mode Effects Analysis; Root Cause Analysis; Communication Improvement; Risk Analysis; Clinical Pharmacist Involvement; Error Reporting and Analysis; Leadership Skills; Legal and Policy Approaches; Education and Training
This residency is designed to develop the resident's skill in safety principles, leadership, research, planning, and process improvement. The resident will function as a member of a multidisciplinary medication safety team to identify and resolve medication safety issues within the institution.
· How To Create Your Funny Safety Slogans. Having a funny safety slogan is great, but don''t let people get carried away by the humor. So when putting up a funny safety slogan, be sure that your purpose of ensuring safety isn''t watered down. The fun shouldn''t be bigger than the purpose of your safety slogan to be impactful and taken seriously.
· BROWSE THROUGH THE SAFETY SLOGAN SUGGESTIONS BELOW! Keep your workplace safe. Let''s Get Started! Workforce Compliance Safety Ltd. is a health & safety industry leader. Our safety specialists offer experience and knowledge of Occupational Health & Safety Legislation throughout the United States and Canada, including safety registry compliance ...
· 41 Catchy Coal Mining Safety Slogans; 51 Good Engineering Safety Slogans; 31 Best Elevator Safety Slogans; 101 Catchy Accident Prevention Slogans; Here''s the big list of business name ideas that covers over 150 of the most popular industries, and here is a directory of all of my slogans.
37 A safety slogan ideas | safety slogans, safety, safety ...
Feb 22, 2020 - Explore diane robertsen''s board "a safety slogan" on Pinterest. See more ideas about safety slogans, safety, safety posters.
Mining health and safety labour hire. Hire your own WHS talent. Whether you''re looking for a full-time emergency response pro to bolster your team, or a health and safety expert for a short-term contract, our health and safety recruitment specialists know what – and who – you need. The right people.
· Carelessness may cost you your life. – Safety saying, circa early 1900s - click to tweet For safety is not a gadget but a state of mind. – Eleanor Everet - click to tweet An incident is just the tip of the iceberg, a sign of a much larger problem below the surface. – Don Brown - click to tweet Prepare and prevent, don''t repair and repent.
· Mining – Workwear, Mats, Industrial, First Aid, Washroom; ... And make use of workplace posters with safety slogans and quotes. They can go a long way in employee protection, too! Post them in critical locations to improve your workplace safety culture. Alsco offers them for free! So put them up to remind your team to be always on guard.
· 145+ Brilliant Coal Mining Safety Slogans. Coal mine safety is a broad term referring to the practice of controlling and managing a wide range of hazards associated with the life cycle of coal mining related activities. Coal mine safety practice involves the implementation of recognised hazard controls and/or reduction of risks associated with ...
Use this infographic to help mine workers identify three essential steps to take when using a personal fall arrest system: (1) select and inspect, (2) put on, and (3) tie off. Assessing the Impact of Safety Climate Constructs on Worker Performance in the Mining Industry. See how findings on mineworker perceptions about safety climate can help ...
49 Mining safety ideas | health and safety poster, safety ...
Oct 15, 2020 - Explore Susanta Panda''s board "Mining safety" on Pinterest. See more ideas about health and safety poster, safety posters, workplace safety. ... Safety Isn''t A Slogan, It''s A Way Of Life safety poster is the latest from CSS. As a leader in visual safety…
Safety Slogans. Access to free, catchy safety slogans used as an aid to promoting and advertising safety in the workplace. Many of these catchy safety slogans are now seen as clever sayings and catchwords used as mottos, slogans and catchphrases to identify health hazards in the workplace.
Description. "Safety is endless. Safety is an ongoing process.". Digital download. Scalable and editable vector graphics. PDF format (PDF/X-1A to be precise). 1 PDF in A2 (42 x 59.4 cm) which you can scale to other A-series paper sizes such as A1, A3, A4, A5.
· 145 Brilliant Coal Mining Safety Slogans Thebrandboy Com Safety Slogans Coal Mining Slogan . A3 Size Safety Poster For Construction Work Mining Etc Importance Of Wearing A Helmet Safety Posters Workplace Safety Occupational Health And Safety . Pin On Safety Posters Categories Safety Tags mines, safety, slogans …
Safety Slogan Mining Safety and Training | Redpath Mining. Standing by the Redpath Philosophies and Guidelines, employees are able to keep SAFETY FIRST, LAST, AND ALWAYS top …
This section contains two categories of research. The first section has research related to the connection between motorcycle design elements and injuries suffered by riders who crash. While a definition of “motorcycle design” might include a wide variety of elements such as wheelbase, fork angle, frame construction, wheel rim construction material and engine configuration, the available research connecting design and injury is mainly focused on fuel tank design – specifically the angle and height of the fuel tank rise. This is a topic not well researched and not often addressed in current motorcyclist safety circles.
The second section is research is related to the connection between crash risk and equipment such as anti-lock braking systems (ABS), traction control, stability control, autonomous emergency braking systems and airbag feasibility studies. Contrary to “design” recent advances in technology have led to “equipment,” especially anti-lock braking and stability control systems, becoming a hot topic with a growing number of research studies.
Abstract. This study aimed to investigate the mechanisms involved in pelvic injuries to crashed motorcyclists. The most frequent cause of pelvic injuries in crashed motorcyclists was due to contact with the motorcycle fuel tank during the crash (85%). The authors conclude improvements in the design of crashworthy motorcycle fuel tanks appear to be required.
2015 – “Can a Boxer Engine Reduce Leg Injuries Among Motorcyclists? Analysis of Injury Distributions in Crashes Involving Different Motorcycles Fitted with Antilock”
The overall motorcycle design can vary across different categories and manufacturers. For instance, some motorcycles are equipped with boxer-twin engines; that is, with protruding cylinder heads. A previous study based on a limited material has suggested that these could provide some leg protection; therefore, the aim of this research was to analyze injury distributions in crashes involving ABS-equipped motorcycles with boxer-twin engines compared to similar ABS-equipped motorcycles with other engine configurations.
Hospitals like St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, Tennessee, have been at the forefront of research for treatment and cures for leukemia, and their research has saved an untold number of lives. With the advances in medical science in just the past 15 years or so, this disease is no longer the death sentence it once was. Patients now have hope for a cure.
My husband was diagnosed nine years ago with CML at age 31. Nine years and in remission. He did not have the chance to try the new treatments that are now available, although I do know of a friend whose mother was diagnosed eight years ago and treated with new medicines as well as chemo and she is still going strong!
It can be a long and tiring road with hurdles along the way. Be there for your cousin and remind him of how strong he is! Staying positive is so important in fighting and also recovery! My husband still struggles emotionally today with all he went through. However, he is fit and lives life with a very different outlook! Health wise, he sometimes struggles with colds and flu, but other than that, he's A-OK! Fingers crossed!
I hope your cousin makes a full recovery and goes on to live a happy and productive life. All the best!
To Noah, there are many different approaches to the treatment of portal vein circulation diseases such as leukemia. many homeopathic physicians have identified the need to strengthen the body and this is especially important when undergoing allopathic (medical official) treatments. However, there are resources online which you can use to help your cousin.
Traditional therapy is the most harmful and dangerous way of treating the body, actually killing the patient rather than curing them.
I just recently learned of my cousin being diagnosed with lymphocytic leukemia, he's only in his early 20's. I know little about the disease, and only that it's cancer of the blood. I don't know how successful treatment is today, how long he will have to be in treatment; from what I read it sounds like a long and tiring process. I'm hoping for a full, quick recovery. Has anyone experience this disease first hand or know someone close to them that has? what type of life one lives after treating it?
Insight Program is a drug and alcohol treatment program located at 5110 Old Ellis Point in Roswell, Georgia. They can be reached at 770-751-8383.
The center uses main treatment approaches of Cognitive Behavior Therapy, Relapse Prevention Services, 12 Step Drug and Alcohol Support. The program also offers these services in the following settings: Inpatient Treatment Services, Outpatient Drug Addiction Recovery , Short Term Treatment, Long Term Substance Rehab.
Insight Program also provides clients with several special programs tailored to the specific needs of people, such as: Drug and Alcohol Rehab for Adolescents, Continuing Care Plans, Substance Abuse Testing, Substance Abuse Testing. Finally, Insight Program also accepts the following types of payment: Private Payment.
Ready To Get Help?
We can help you find the right treatment facility that best fits your overall needs and financial requirements.
"Mental Illness" and medical students with Anxiety/Depression – Unorthodocs- a meandering
"Illness" is seen as a pathology – a deficiency in coping or at least in your chemicals. What if this very "definitional ceremony" of diagnosing "mental illness" is a large part of the creation of said "illness"?
What if anxiety and depression were instead regarded as normal consequences in normal people when pushed to perform above their capacity, repeatedly, with constant threat of punishment for any failures? What if this is the major problem in medicine?
Without raving on, which is my usual penchant, I'll just say what I think.
I believe that much (not all) of what we call mental illness is socially constructed and the process of diagnosing distracts us from this particular causal factor. Instead of looking upstream, we devote our efforts into trying to help individuals who are sidelined because they are unable to deliver as we increase the expectations upon them.
Then we add insult to injury, calling their experience an illness, rather than normalising it. This amplifies fear, stress reactions, immune suppression, inflammation and they then get ill. We are getting close with the associations now, (see here) but perhaps the experience of being labelled is more cause than effect?
This I sincerely believe. I'm not alone. The whole discipline of narrative therapy (which is a wonderful adjunct/alternative to modern psychiatry by the way) acknowledges this possibility and this enables different solutions. To me the obvious remedy is upstream prevention:
Stop demanding super-human performance from humans.
Stop calling medicine a tough profession.
Stop making medicine a tough profession.
Stop expelling gentle, methodical and slow people from the profession using terms like "inefficient", "indecisive", "weak", "not a leader" and so on.
If you are a patient, demand reform from the profession and if you can, offer help to activists seeking healthcare reform. Stressed doctors aren't serving you well. Perhaps join Getup or contact The Health Issues Centre and find out what you can do to help.
Let's upskill people in health literacy so they don't need to rely on doctors and the health system so much. Let's stop regarding anxiety and depression as mental illness and lets call it what it is.. normal consequences of an abusive culture in motion. Abuse is being forced to do something you can't or don't want to do. These doctors can't and don't want to be at 5 bedsides at once (not to mention the nurses who have similar demands placed on them). They don't want to work 3 hours overtime without pay, and we shouldn't expect them to. The fact that they earn more than average is a distraction in the debate about preventing mental illness in the professions we need the most.
Western Australian GP Dr Sarah Newman is brave to bring up the issue. I hope the planned Perth conference about the issue discusses the social construction of mental illness. To not do so would be a missed opportunity.
Posted on September 12, 2016 September 12, 2016 Author adminCategories Deconstructing assumptions, Health, Healthcare system, Personal wellbeing, Talking therapies, Uncategorized
Longevity Complementary Care Center is located in Macedon, 669 Route 31 (Pittsford-Palmyra Rd).
Longevity is located in Macedon, New York, and formerly known as Victor Acupuncture.
Welcome to Longevity Complementary Care Center
specializes in the treatment of many pain conditions, such as neck and back pain, migraines and other headaches, sciatica, TMJ, tennis elbow/tendonitis, carpal tunnel, arthritis, and cancer-related pain. We also offer a more holistic approach to treating digestive, gynecological and dermatological conditions.
Additionally, Dr. Marnae Ergil specializes in the treatment of stubborn dermatological conditions, such as acne, eczema, psoriasis, etc., using Chinese herbal medicine.
Many of our patients work and have families, and that's why Longevity Complementary Care Center offers flexible evening hours, so you can fit treatments into your busy family and work schedule.
We also know that money is a concern.
Longevity Complementary Care Center offers affordable care options, and accepts all major insurances. We don't treat unless we know you'll benefit and we involve our patients and their input in future treatment plans.
We also know that you probably REALLY need to take some time out for yourself!
well-being, and not merely the absence of disease or infirmary.
Your health and wellbeing are important to you, and that is why they are important to us. Longevity Complementary care Center offers flexible evening hours, so you can fit treatments into your busy family and work schedule.
