Procedure is derived directly from HL7 and Canada Health Infoway: 'An Act whose immediate and primary outcome (post-condition) is the alteration of the physical condition of the subject. Procedure is but one among several types of clinical activities such as observation, substance- administrations, and communicative interactions. Procedure does not comprise all acts of [sic] whose intent is intervention or treatment.' A procedure may be a surgery or other type of physical manipulation of a person's body in whole or in part for purposes of making observations and diagnoses or providing treatment.
CT SYSTEM FOR USE IN MULTI-MODALITY IMAGING SYSTEM - Patent application
Patent application title: CT SYSTEM FOR USE IN MULTI-MODALITY IMAGING SYSTEM
Inventors: Yulim Zingerman (Netanya, IL)
Patent application number: 20120256092
A computed tomography (CT) imaging system is disclosed. The CT imaging system may be used in a multi-modality imaging context or other context. In one embodiment, the CT imaging system provides for both fast rotation of the rotating X-ray source and detection components and low dose of X-rays generated by the source providing several clinical and economic benefits such as low dose and sufficient image quality and no or insignificant investment in room shielding associated with diagnostic CT dose.
1. A dual-modality imaging system, comprising: a nuclear medicine imaging subsystem comprising a gamma ray detection component suitable for acquiring functional image data; and a computed tomography (CT) subsystem suitable for acquiring structural image data, wherein the CT subsystem comprises a gantry housing an X-ray source and an X-ray detector that are configured to rotate with respect to the gantry, wherein the X-ray source and the X-ray detector rotate above 30 revolution per minute (RPM) during operation, and wherein the X-ray source operates at a current level below 30 mA during operation.
2. The dual-modality imaging system of claim 1, wherein the nuclear medicine imaging modality comprises one of a single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) system or a positron emission tomography (PET) system.
3. The dual-modality imaging system of claim 1 wherein the nuclear medicine imaging subsystem and the CT subsystem are one or both of mechanically or operationally coupled to form the dual-modality imaging system.
4. The dual-modality imaging system of claim 1, wherein the CT subsystem has an associated footprint of about 70 inches by 20 inches.
5. The dual-modality imaging system of claim 1, wherein a room in which the CT subsystem is housed does not include radiation shielding.
6. The dual-modality imaging system of claim 1, wherein the X-ray source operates at about 20 mA.
7. The dual-modality imaging system of claim 1, wherein the X-ray detector of the CT subsystem rotates faster than the gamma ray detection component of the nuclear medicine imaging subsystem when in operation.
8. The dual-modality imaging system of claim 1, wherein the CT subsystem has a thickness of 20 inches or less.
9. The dual-modality imaging system of claim 1, wherein the CT subsystem generates images that do not have diagnostic image quality.
10. A dual-modality imaging method, comprising: acquiring a set of functional image data using a nuclear medicine imaging subsystem of a dual-modality imaging system; acquiring a set of computed tomography (CT) imaging data using a CT imaging subsystem, wherein a detector of the CT subsystem rotates at least above 30 revolutions per minute (RPM) and an X-ray source of the CT subsystem operates at a current between about 10 mA and about 30 mA during acquisition of the set of CT imaging data; and generating a localization image or attenuation map using the set of CT imaging data.
11. The dual-modality imaging method of claim 10, comprising registering the localization image with a function image generated from the set of functional image data.
12. The dual-modality imaging method of claim 10, wherein acquiring the set of functional image data comprises acquiring a set of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) data or a set of positron emission tomography (PET) data.
13. The dual-modality imaging method of claim 10, wherein the set of functional image data and the set of CT imaging data are acquired sequentially.
14. The dual-modality imaging method of claim 10, comprising translating a patient a fixed distance such that a specified region of interest is imaged during both the acquisition of the set of functional image data and the acquisition of the set of CT imaging data.
15. The dual-modality imaging method of claim 10, wherein the localization image does not have mm or sub-mm resolution.
16. A CT imaging system, comprising: a gantry; an X-ray detector configured to rotate about the gantry; and an X-ray source configured to rotate about the gantry, wherein the X-ray source operates at a current level of between about 10 mA and about 30 mA during operation; wherein the X-ray source and the X-ray detector during operation rotate about the gantry at above 30 revolutions per minute (RPM).
17. The CT imaging system of claim 16, comprising detector acquisition circuitry configured to generate one or more images from signals generated by the X-ray detector, wherein the one or more images are at a non-diagnostic image quality.
18. The CT imaging system of claim 16, wherein the CT system has an associated footprint of about 70 inches by 20 inches.
19. The CT imaging system of claim 16, wherein a dynamic range of the X-ray detector is calibrated for use at low dose levels.
20. The CT imaging system of claim 16, wherein the CT imaging system is used in one or more of a dual-modality imaging context, a surgical navigation context, or an emergency room context.
[0001] The subject matter disclosed herein relates to a multi-modality imaging system employing computed tomography (CT) and, more particularly to single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) or positron emission tomography (PET) systems combined as part of a SPECT/CT or PET/CT system.
[0002] Non-invasive imaging broadly encompasses techniques for generating images of the internal structures or regions of a person that are otherwise inaccessible for visual inspection. One of the best known uses of non-invasive imaging is in the medical arts where these techniques are used to generate images of organs and/or bones inside a patient which would otherwise not be visible. One class of medical non-invasive imaging modalities is based on the generation of structural images of internal structures which depict the physical arrangement of the imaged region. One example of such a modality is computed tomography (CT), which is based on the differential transmission of X-rays through the patient as seen from numerous radial views about the patient. In CT, the acquired X-ray transmission data may be used to generate three-dimensional volumes of the imaged region.
[0003] While structural imaging modalities generate images of the physical or anatomical arrangement of an internal region of interest of the patient, functional imaging modalities generate images reflecting the chemical composition or metabolic activity of the internal region of interest. One example of such a functional imaging modality is single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT). In SPECT imaging, gamma rays are generated by a radioactive tracer introduced into the patient. Based on the type of metaboland, sugar, or other compound into which the radioactive tracer is incorporated, the radioactive tracer is accumulated in different parts of the patient and measurement of the resulting gamma rays can be used to localize and image the accumulation of the tracer. For example, tumors may disproportionately utilize glucose or other substrates relative to other tissues such that the tumors may be detected and localized using radioactively tagged deoxyglucose.
[0004] The different properties of structural and functional imaging may be combined to provide more information to a diagnostician than either modality alone. For example, in the case of combined SPECT/CT scanners, a clinician is able to acquire both SPECT and CT image data that can be used in conjunction to detect tumors or to evaluate the progression of a tumor. However, due to differences in the manner in which SPECT and CT systems operate, e.g., the physical phenomena measured and the manner in which measurement is accomplished, it may be difficult to design a combined modality imaging system that provides the desired functionality and performance with respect to each different imaging modality.
[0005] Further, certain of the structural modalities, such as CT, may utilize X-rays or other forms of radiation. In certain countries, regulations or best practices may limit the X-ray dose that may be experiences outside the room containing the imaging system, such as to not exceed 0.02 millisievert/week. To meet these requirements, the walls of a room housing such a system may be shielded (such as with lead plating having a thickness of 2 mm or more), which can add substantially to the cost of constructing a facility for housing such a system. Further, use of such shielding can environmental and recycling issues due to the presence of lead.
[0006] The present invention provides for a combined SPECT/CT imaging system that addresses problems that may be found in existing systems. In one embodiment, the present SPECT/CT system utilizes a distinct CT subsystem in which the CT detector components rotate independent of the gamma detectors of the SPECT subsystem and, in one implementation rotate at rotation speed greater than 30 RPM, and preferably about 60 rotations per minute (RPM) or above, typically the same or faster than the corresponding gamma detection components. Further, in one such implementation, the CT subsystem operates at a low dose (i.e., at a limited mAs and/or with a suitable bowtie filter). In embodiments where the CT subsystem operates at a low dose, the SPECT/CT system and/or the surrounding environment or room may use no or reduced shielding or radiation protection, in contrast to the higher level of shielding and/or protection that is typically associated with higher dose (e.g., diagnostic) CT systems. Further, the CT subsystem of the present SPECT/CT system may have a reduced footprint with respect to other conventional SPECT/CT systems.
[0007] In accordance with one aspect of the present disclosure, a dual-modality imaging system is provided. The dual-modality imaging system includes a nuclear medicine imaging subsystem comprising a gamma ray detection component suitable for acquiring functional image data. The dual-modality imaging system also includes a computed tomography (CT) subsystem suitable for acquiring structural image data. The CT subsystem comprises a gantry housing an X-ray source and an X-ray detector that are configured to rotate with respect to the gantry. The X-ray source and the X-ray detector rotate above 30 revolution per minute (RPM) during operation. The X-ray source operates at a current level below 30 mA during operation, such as between 10 mA and 30 mA.
[0008] In accordance with another aspect, a dual-modality imaging method is provided. In accordance with the method a set of functional image data is acquired using a nuclear medicine imaging subsystem of a dual-modality imaging system. A set of computed tomography (CT) imaging data is acquired using a CT imaging subsystem. A detector of the CT subsystem rotates at least above 30 revolutions per minute (RPM), such as about or above 60 RPM and an X-ray source of the CT subsystem operates at a current between about 10 mA and about 30 mA during acquisition of the set of CT imaging data. A localization image or attenuation map is generated using the set of CT imaging data.
[0009] In accordance with a further aspect, a CT imaging system is provided. The CT imaging system includes a gantry and an X-ray detector and X-ray source configured to rotate about the gantry. The X-ray source operates at a current level of between about 10 mA and about 30 mA during operation. The X-ray source and the X-ray detector during operation rotate about the gantry at least above 30 revolutions per minute RPM, such as at or above 60 RPM.
[0011] FIG. 1 depicts a side view of a SPECT/CT imaging system in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure in a room having shielding;
[0012] FIG. 2 depicts a side view of a SPECT/CT imaging system in accordance with aspects of the present disclosure in a room having no or reduced shielding;
[0013] FIG. 3 depicts a front-view of a CT subsystem for use in conjunction with the SPECT/CT imaging system of FIGS. 1 and 2; and
[0014] FIG. 4 is a cross-sectional view the CT subsystem of FIG. 3 taken along sight line 4.
[0015] A diagrammatic representation of an exemplary SPECT/CT imaging system is shown in FIG. 1. The multi-modality system, designated generally by the reference numeral 10, is designed to acquire both structural (e.g., CT) and functional (e.g., SPECT) image data during an imaging session. In the depicted embodiment, the multi-modality imaging system 10 includes a SPECT subsystem 12 and a CT subsystem 14. As will be appreciated, though a SPECT imaging modality is primarily discussed herein, other nuclear medicine imaging modalities (such as positron emission tomography (PET)) may also be used to provide functional imaging in conjunction with the CT imaging subsystem discussed herein. It also should be noted that the rotating, dual-detector, L-mode gamma camera depicted herein is to be viewed as a non-limiting example. Other gamma camera configurations such as fixed multiple pinhole configurations or swiveling heads may be used within the scope of the invention. Additionally, the relative positioning of the two modalities may vary.
[0016] In an imaging system 10 such as the depicted SPECT/CT imaging system the subject is positioned relative to the system 10 using a patient support, e.g., a bed or table (not seen in the figure for drawing clarity). The support may be movable within the scanner to allow for imaging of different tissues or anatomies of interest within the subject. Prior to image data collection, a radioisotope, such as a radiopharmaceutical substance (sometimes referred to as a radiotracer), is administered to the patient, and may be bound or taken up by particular tissues or organs. Typical radioisotopes include various radioactive forms of elements that emit gamma radiation during decay. Various additional substances may be selectively combined with such radioisotopes to target specific areas or tissues of the body.
[0017] Gamma radiation emitted by the radioisotope is detected and localized using gamma detectors 18 of the SPECT subsystem 12. The gamma ray detectors 18 may be configured to rotate about the patient to acquire gamma ray emission data from a variety of radial views. The gamma ray emission data may then be read out by suitable data acquisition circuitry in communication with the gamma ray detectors 18. The gamma detectors 18 may be coupled to system control and processing circuitry. This circuitry may include a number of physical and functional components that cooperate to allow the collection and processing of image data to create the desired SPECT images.
[0018] Proximate to the SPECT subsystem 12, the CT subsystem 14 may be deployed to allow acquisition of structural (e.g., anatomic) image data of the region of interest near in time or concurrently with acquisition of the functional image data. The CT subsystem 14 may include a source of X-ray radiation (e.g., an X-ray tube or solid state X-ray emission component) as well as a detector component for measuring the attenuation of the emitted X-ray radiation by the patient. As discussed herein, both the source and detector of X-ray radiation may be mounted on a gantry to facilitate moving the source and detector about the patient. The detector component may communicate with detection and acquisition circuitry and downstream processing circuitry to allow the collection and processing of image data and to create the desired CT images.
[0019] In FIG. 1, a wall 16 is also depicted representing the wall of a room in which the system 10 is deployed. In FIG. 1, the system 10 is depicted as being deployed in an existing facility, where the wall 16 may be sized to limit radiation exposure outside the room and/or may include radiation shielding 20, such lead plating having a thickness of 2 mm or more. However, while the system 10 may be used in an existing room with shielded or reinforced walls, as depicted in FIG. 1, the present system 10 may also be used in a room or facility with little or no shielding in the walls. For example, FIG. 2 depicts the system 10 in the context of a room in which the walls 16 have little or no shielding compared to facilities constructed for existing systems. As such the wall 16 of FIG. 2 may be thinner compared to previous walls in which CT systems were housed and/or may have little or no radiation shielding compared to such previous walls.
[0020] The various circuitry associated with both the SPECT subsystem 12 and the CT subsystem 14 may interact with control/interface circuitry that allows for control of the multi-modality imaging system 10 and its components. Moreover, the processing circuitry of one or both subsystems may be supported by various circuits, such as memory circuitry that may be used to store image data, calibration or correction values, routines performed by the processing circuitry, parameters for standard or routine scan protocols, and so forth. Finally, the interface circuitry may interact with or support an operator interface. The operator interface allows for imaging sequences to be commanded, scanner and system settings to be viewed and adjusted, images to be viewed, and so forth. The operator interface may include a monitor on which reconstructed images may be viewed.
[0021] With the foregoing in mind, in operation the SPECT/CT imaging system 10 may be employed to perform sequential image acquisitions which may be subsequently registered for viewing and/or analysis. For example, in one implementation a set of SPECT image data may be initially acquired for a region of interest of a patient using the SPECT subsystem 12. The patient may then be automatically translated a fixed amount so that the region of interest is properly positioned within the CT subsystem 14 and a set of CT image data may be acquired. The respective SPECT and CT images generated based on the acquired data may then be automatically registered based on the fixed and known translation of the patient. Alternatively, the order may be reversed such as the CT images are acquired first. In this case, CT images may be used for locating the organ of interest and position the patient for the SPECT imaging.
[0022] In an institutional setting, the multi-modality imaging system 10 may be coupled to one or more networks to allow for the transfer of system data to and from the imaging system 10, as well as to permit transmission and storage of image data and processed images. For example, local area networks, wide area networks, wireless networks, and so forth may allow for storage of image data on radiology department information systems or on hospital information systems. Such network connections further allow for transmission of image data to remote post-processing systems, physician offices, and so forth.
[0023] While the preceding provides general context for the use and construction of a SPECT/CT system in accordance with the present disclosure, aspects of the CT subsystem 14 will now be described in greater detail. To appreciate the manner in which the present CT subsystem may operate, certain examples of existing systems are initially discussed.
[0024] For example, certain types of existing CT subsystems used in SPECT/CT systems may employ relatively slow rotation of the CT gantry, such as due to the CT detector and the SPECT detector being mechanically coupled so as to rotate together, that is the CT and SPECT detectors rotate at the same speed. Rotation speed of such systems may be limited by the weight and fragility of the SPECT detectors. Such systems may generate images that exhibit motion artifacts due to patient motion (e.g., due to patient breathing or other motion) during the relatively slow CT data acquisition process. Such systems, however, may employ relatively low X-ray doses as compared to faster rotating, diagnostic CT systems.
[0025] Other types of existing CT subsystems used in SPECT/CT systems may employ what is essentially a standalone, diagnostic CT system as the CT subsystem. Such diagnostic CT systems may provide fast rotation of the CT gantry but also utilize relatively high X-ray doses. As a result, the CT images acquired using such stand-alone systems may themselves be suitable for diagnostic purposes, as opposed to just localization of the large organs and internal structures. That is, such high rotation speed, high dose systems may operate at diagnostic image quality (i.e., resolutions in the mm or sub-mm range, good contrast in Hounsfield numbers and high signal to noise ration) that are beyond what is needed for typical SPECT/CT operation. Instead, such SPECT/CT operations may work satisfactorily with just localization (i.e., position) information derived from the CT image data since such localization information may be sufficient for registration and/or attenuation correction of the SPECT image data, which provides the diagnostic information.
[0026] Therefore, in certain implementations of the present approach, a fast rotation, low dose CT subsystem is employed as part of a SPECT/CT imaging system. For example, one embodiment of such a system rotates the CT detector and X-ray source at about 60 RPM (i.e., faster than the gamma ray detecting components of the SPECT subsystem 12) while achieving a dose associated with low dose slow rotating CT (about 10-20 mAs). In such an embodiment, a conventional X-ray detector may be employed, though with dynamic range calibration suitable for the low dose implementation. Further, due to the relatively low dose usage, the CT subsystem and/or the room housing the CT subsystem may employ little or no shielding, especially in comparison to diagnostic level CT systems. For example, in one such embodiment, the CT subsystem 14 may be employed in a room in which the walls do not include lead or other shielding materials.
[0027] Turning to FIGS. 3 and 4, an example of a fast rotation (e.g., at or above 30 RPM, such as about 60 RPM), low dose (e.g., about 10-30 mAs) CT subsystem 14 is depicted. In the depicted example, the SPECT subsystem 12 and CT subsystem 14 are mechanically and/or operationally coupled and are not simply standalone systems brought into proximity with one another.
[0028] In the depicted implementation of FIGS. 3 and 4, the CT subsystem 14 includes a gantry 22 that provides the rotational framework for those components of the CT subsystem 14 that rotate with respect to the patient. These rotating components may include, but are not limited to an X-ray source or tube 24 and a data measurement system, (e.g., detector 26). A high-voltage generator 30 may provide power to one or more components of the CT subsystem 14, such as the X-ray source 24. In the depicted embodiment, little or no additional shielding is provided on the CT subsystem 14 (or in the surrounding environment or room, as depicted in FIG. 2) due to the relatively low dose of X-rays that the CT subsystem 14 is configured to employ. The optional reduced shielding may reduce the weight of the CT rotor, saving space, cost and complexity. Additionally, high-voltage generator 30 and X-ray source 24 may be adapted to operate at reduced power, and can thereby operate with less heat removal, further reducing weight of the CT rotor, saving space, cost and complexity.
[0029] Further, the depicted implementation of CT subsystem 14 also has a slim profile compared to stand-alone or diagnostic type CT systems. For example, in one embodiment, the CT subsystem 14 may be approximately 70 inches wide (for example, 69.5 inches or approximately 176.53 cm), approximately 75 inches high (for example, 73.73 inches or approximately 187.27 cm), and approximately 20 inches (for example, 18.38 inches or approximately 46.69 cm) from the scan plane of the CT subsystem 14 to the bearing mating with the SPECT subsystem 12. Such an example of a CT subsystem may have a bore size of 700 mm (e.g., diameter of bore 36) and provide a field of view of approximately 500 mm. In one embodiment a 4-slice detector 26 is employed where each slice has a slice thickness of 2.5 mm, providing 10 mm of axial coverage at isocenter. In such an embodiment, each detector slice may have upwards of 500 physical detectors per slice (e.g., 544 physical detectors per slice or higher).
[0030] The X-ray source 24 employed in such an implementation may be configured to operate between at a maximum 30 mA and a minimum 10 mA. Further, such an embodiment may operate at a maximum 140 kV with respect to the X-ray source 24. Where the CT subsystem achieves a rotation speed of 1 second (i.e., 60 RPM), a 40 cm scan time may be achieved in 26 seconds for a helical scan (assuming 2.5 mm per detector slice and 1.5 pitch) or 40 seconds for an axial scan.
[0031] In operation, one implementation of the CT subsystem 12 as discussed herein may be employed to obtain fast rotation, low dose CT images generally suitable for localization of internal images or structures, but not for diagnostic image review (i.e., the images do not have mm or sub-mm resolution, high SNR and high contrast). Due to the low dose associated with the CT subsystem 14, additional shielding may not be employed in the CT subsystem 14 or surrounding environment, while, due to the fast rotation speed (i.e., approximately 60 RPM) motion artifacts may be reduced or eliminated in the CT images compared to CT systems rotating at slower speeds. In this manner, CT images may be acquired using the CT subsystem 14 that have reduced or no motion artifacts but which also provide sufficient image quality for localization or attenuation correction of the internal organs or structures, and for attenuation correction of the SPECT image, without providing diagnostic level image quality or detail. Further, the known and fixed translation of the patient in the combined SPECT/CT imaging system 10 may allow the images acquired using the CT subsystem 14 to be readily registered to the images acquired by the SPECT subsystem 12.
[0032] Further, though the context of a SPECT/CT imaging system 10 is discussed, it should be appreciated that a CT subsystem 14 having characteristics as discussed herein may be used in a variety of other contexts. For example, a CT system 14 having fast rotation, low dose, and generating images of less than diagnostic image quality may be used in a emergency room or triage context, where a rapid, high level view of the internal structures of a patient may be useful in quickly determining a course of action, but is not used primarily in a diagnostic sense. Likewise, such a CT system 14 may be useful in a surgical navigation context or a minimally invasive surgery context, such as for providing preliminary organ positions and/or for tracking an interventional instrument (e.g., a stent or catheter) in a patient. Similarly, such a CT system 14 may be useful in radiation therapy planning and patient positioning. Optionally, such a CT system 14 may be used, for example in emergency, surgery or intensive care setting while medical personnel remains in the vicinity of the patient and need not move to a shielded location for the duration of the CT exposure. Additionally, such a CT system 14 may be made mobile and moved to the patient's location due to its reduced power requirement, reduced weight and the absence of shielding.
[0033] Technical effects of the invention include the use of a low dose, fast rotation CT system in the acquisition of non-diagnostic CT images with no or few patient motion related image artifacts. Examples of such systems may rotate at about 60 RPM and/or may generate a dose consistent with X-ray generation at 20 mA. Non-diagnostic images may be generated in this manner that are suitable for registration and/or attenuation correction, but which do not have the image quality generally associated with diagnostic reviews and/or analysis.
Neoadjuvant Treatment and Molecular Characterization - Revlon/UCLA Breast Center, Westwood - Los Angeles, CA
Study of Markers in Body Fluids
Neoadjuvant Treatment and Molecular Characterization
Neoadjuvant Treatment and Molecular Characterization of Locally Advanced Breast Cancer
Women diagnosed with large breast cancer have a poor prognosis because of the disease is more likely to spread to other parts of the body. This study will determine the amount of tumor shrinkage when chemotherapy is given before surgery. The study also seeks to identify possible predictors of patients' response to treatment. Eligible participants include women with a recently diagnosed breast cancer that is a least 2 cm in size, without any evidence of spread to other organs.
Tempur-Med® Dental Chair Pad and Head Cushion Back by Popu... ( NORTH CANTON Ohio July 18 2011 /- Bio...)
...NORTH CANTON Ohio July 18 2011 /- BioTech Medical Inc... There isn't a day that goes by that our office doesn't receive a call...The addition of the BTM Original Tempur-Med® Dental Cha... ABOUT BIOTECH MEDICAL INC.BioTech Medical Inc. is a leading...
Lauren Capolcapo@suarez.com330-497-6866
3. Chinese Market for Dental Imaging Equipment 2011 (Digital Intraoral X-Ray Systems, Extraoral X-Ray Systems and CBCT Scanners)
4. Foundation Venture Capital Group Invests in Company Developing Plaque-Reducing Dental Hygiene Products
5. Reportlinker Adds South and Central America Dental Devices Market Outlook to 2017
6. Reportlinker Adds Middle East and Africa Dental Devices Market Outlook to 2017
7. Asia-Pacific Dental Devices Market Outlook to 2016
8. Heska to Present at SunTrust Robinson Humphreys Annual Veterinary and Dental Conference
9. Objet to Showcase Exceptionally Detailed and Accurate Dental Models at LMT LAB DAY West
10. FDA CONSUMER HEALTH INFORMATION - Ten Tips to Prevent an Accidental Overdose
11. Reportlinker Adds Latin American Markets for Dental Implants, Final Abutments and Computer Guided Surgery 2011 (Argentina, Brazil and Mexico)
How Do You Treat Coronavirus? Here Are Physicians Finest Strategies – Blog
Chloroquine, and the related drug, hydroxychloroquine, could have antiviral and immune-calming properties. Early findings counsel interferon beta may minimize the odds of a Covid affected person in hospital developing extreme disease – such as requiring ventilation – by nearly eighty%. Interferon beta, a protein which the physique produces when it gets a viral an infection, is on the centre of a giant trial within the UK. The steroid dexamethasone has been proven to cut the risk of dying by a 3rd for sufferers on ventilators and by a fifth for those on oxygen. President Trump also speculated at an April press conference about hitting the body with "ultraviolet or simply very powerful gentle." Researchers have used UV mild to sterilize surfaces, together with killing viruses, in carefully managed laboratories. But UV gentle wouldn't be able to purge the virus from within a sick persons' physique.
The F.D.A. gave full approval to the drug quickly afterwards, on Oct. 22, to be used in patients 12 years and older. This list offers a snapshot of the newest analysis on the coronavirus, however doesn't constitute medical endorsements. The Issa Foundation has also pledged £30,000 to enhance safety at a junction near the mosque and employ parking marshals to scale back road safety risks. Howell concluded that Nordean was extensively involved in "pre-planning" for the events of Jan. 6 and that he and other Proud Boys "had been clearly ready for a violent confrontation" that day.
This antiviral was tested along with the drug lopinavir/ritonavir as a remedy for COVID-19. This drug, developed by ViralClear Pharmaceuticals Inc., has been beforehand shown to have antiviral and immune-suppressing effects. This is a mixture of two medicine — lopinavir and ritonavir — that work against HIV.
A benefit of bamlanivimab remedy has not been shown in sufferers hospitalized as a result of COVID-19. Monoclonal antibodies, corresponding to bamlanivimab, may be related to worse clinical outcomes when administered to hospitalized sufferers with COVID-19 requiring excessive flow oxygen or mechanical ventilation. Wide-scale equitable world availability of NONS might kind a bridge during the international production and distribution of vaccines to assist hold folks safe and healthy. The ease of NONS manufacture, storage and use makes NONS a remedy candidate that might quickly be widely obtainable at low-value for lengthy-time period care amenities, healthcare and frontline employees, and the final population. In this study, the researchers examined clofazimine in hamsters–an animal mannequin for COVID-19–that have been contaminated with SARS-CoV-2.
For patients at high risk for illness development, hospitalizations and emergency room visits occurred in 3% of casirivimab and imdevimab-handled sufferers on common in comparison with 9% in placebo-treated patients. The effects on viral load, discount in hospitalizations and ER visits have been comparable in sufferers receiving both of the two casirivimab and imdevimab doses. In determining whether to problem an EUA, the FDA evaluates the totality of available scientific proof and punctiliously balances any recognized or potential dangers with any recognized or potential advantages of the product to be used throughout an emergency.
Extra In Drugs & Well Being
This study, conducted by Dr Stephen Winchester and Dr Isaac John at Ashford and St. Peter's Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, was devised to determine the clinical efficacy of NONS for the treatment of gentle COVID-19 infection. The main consequence measure was the distinction in SARS-CoV-2 RNA load from baseline by way of Day 6 between NONS and management arms. Sanford Burnham Prebys is a preeminent, unbiased biomedical analysis institute devoted to understanding human biology and disease and advancing scientific discoveries to profoundly impression human health. For more than 40 years, our research has produced breakthroughs in cancer, neuroscience, immunology and kids's ailments, and is anchored by our NCI-designated Cancer Center and superior drug discovery capabilities. For extra info, visit us at SBPdiscovery.org or on Facebook at facebook.com/SBPdiscovery and on Twitter @SBPdiscovery. "Our information means that clofazimine must also be examined as a monotherapy for people with COVID-19, which might lower many limitations to treatment," says Chanda.
This Phase 2a check—drug trials have three phases earlier than a product may be accredited—was carried out amongst 202 non-hospitalized folks with signs of COVID-19.
Ridgeback Biotherapeutics and Merck are collaborating to develop it as a remedy for Covid-19.
Treatment with bamlanivimab and etesevimab mixture therapy, however not bamlanivimab monotherapy, resulted in a reduction in SARS-CoV-2 log viral load at day eleven in patients with mild to moderate COVID-19 .
In late March, the New York Blood Center started accumulating plasma from people who have recovered from COVID-19. A preprint study published in September found that the antibody protected Syrian golden hamsters that had been infected with SARS-CoV-2. A July evaluation of 12 research discovered that Arbidol didn't enhance outcomes in individuals with COVID-19. In early February, a study indicated fluvoxamine could help prevent gentle COVID-19 signs from becoming worse. Research in mice has proven that it could reduce replication of a number of coronaviruses, including SARS-CoV-2.
Gsk Covid Treatment Reveals Profound Efficacy In Initial Trial
On the opposite hand, a trial on hospitalized patients with extra average signs instructed it reduces their danger of suffering more severe sickness. One study among patients within the Department of Veterans Affairs healthcare system showed that early treatment with anticoagulants led to a lowered threat of demise. In November, British researchers launched a big-scale randomized clinical trial of colchicine. On March 5, they closed the trial down because they discovered no convincing proof that it prevented deaths in people with extreme Covid-19. The drug was given to 11,162 sufferers, nearly all of whom were additionally receiving dexamethasone or another corticosteroid.
RN CV Education Specialist - Gainesville jobs
RN CV Education Specialist
North Florida Regional Healthcare is one of six accredited sites in the US and the only site in Florida for TAVR (Transcatheter Aortic Valve Repair). NFRMC is a 510-bed, full-service medical and surgical acute care center serving North Central Florida and offering comprehensive cardiovascular care, oncology, orthopedics, neurosciences, minimally-invasive laparoscopic and robotic surgery, weight loss surgery and treatment, senior care, women's health and wound therapy, among other services. A proven leader, NFRMC is fully accredited, is certified as a Comprehensive Stroke Center and a Quality Top Performer by The Joint Commission, is an accredited Chest Pain Center, is designated as a Blue Distinction (tm) Center for Knee and Hip Replacement, Spine Surgery and Bariatric Surgery, and earned a position in Truven Health's Top 100 Hospitals in 2017.
Privacy statement - SPEICK natural cosmetics - Beauty. A force of nature.
As the operator of the website, we take the protection of your personal data on our website very seriously. We handle your personal data confidentially and according to the statutory data protection regulations.
As a rule, the use of our website is possible without your giving us personal data. Provided that a data subject would like to take advantage of special services on our website, it may be required that personal data is processed. In so far as personal data is collected on our web pages, it is always carried out on a voluntary basis, as far as is possible. This data is used for the given purpose and is not shared with third parties without express agreement. The processing of personal data, e.g. the name, address, email address or telephone number of a data subject, is carried out in accordance with the requirements of the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), the German Federal Data Protection Act (new) (BDSG new), the applicable country-specific data protection regulations and the German Teleservices Act (TMG).
We would point out that data transfer via the internet (e.g. email communications) can present security vulnerabilities. It is not possible to protect data completely from access by third parties. Every person is welcome to transmit their personal data to us via an alternative channel: by telephone, for example.
The controller as defined by the General Data Protection Regulation is:
Tel. +49 711 16 13-0
Email info@speick.de
Website: www.speick.de
Authorised representative: Mr Wikhart Teuffel
Name and address of the Data Protection Officer and Supervisory Authority
Tel.: 07127/9499064
Email: info@co-da.net
Every data subject can at any time contact our Data Protection Officer directly with regard to any questions or suggestions about data protection.
Every data subject is entitled to complain to the Supervisory Authority.
If we ask a data subject for consent to use their personal data for processing operations, point (a) of Article 6(1) EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) serves as the legal basis.
When it is required that we process personal data to fulfil a contract to which the data subject is a party, point (b) of Article 6(1) GDPR serves as the legal basis. This also applies to processing operations that are required to carry out pre-contractual measures.
If we are required to process personal data to fulfil a legal obligation to which our company is subject, point (c) of Article 6(1) GDPR serves as the legal basis.
In the event that vital interests of the data subject or another natural person require the processing of personal data, point (d) of Article 6(1) GDPR serves as the legal basis.
If processing is required to safeguard a legitimate interest of our company or a third party and the interests, constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms of the data subject do not outweigh the first-named interest, point (f) of Article 6(1) GDPR serves as the legal basis for the processing.
We process and retain the data subject's personal data only for the period required to achieve the purpose of retaining it or if this was provided for by the European regulator or another legislator in laws or regulations to which the controller is subject.
If there is no purpose for retaining personal data, or a retention period prescribed by a European regulator or another responsible legislator expires, the personal data is blocked or erased as a matter of routine in accordance with the statutory regulations.
Our web pages use cookies. Cookies are text files that are deposited and stored via a web browser on a computer system. Websites and servers use cookies. Cookies contain a so-called cookie ID. A cookie ID is the cookie's unique identification. It consists of a character string through which web pages and servers can be assigned to the specific web browser in which the cookie was stored. This enables the websites and servers visited to differentiate between the individual browsers of the data subject and other web browsers that contain other cookies. A particular web browser can be recognised again and identified via the unique cookie ID.
By using cookies, we can provide users of this website with user-friendly services that would not be possible without the placement of a cookie.
By means of a cookie, information and offers on our website can be optimised for the user's benefit. As already mentioned, cookies enable us to know if users have visited our website before. The purpose of this re-recognition is to make it easier for users to use our website. For example, the user of a website that uses cookies does not need to enter his or her access data every time he or she visits the website because this data is taken over by the website and the cookie that is placed on the user's computer system.
The data subject can prevent cookies being placed by our website at any time by selecting the appropriate setting in the web browser used and thus opt out of cookie placement permanently. Cookies that have already been placed can be deleted at any time via a web browser or other software program. This can be done in all common web browsers. If the data subject deactivates the setting of cookies in the web browser used, not all functions of our website can be fully used under certain circumstances.
Capturing general data, log files and information
Every time a data subject or an automated system downloads a website, a string of general data and information is captured. This general data and information is stored in the log file of the server. The following can be captured:
the browse types and versions used,
the website from which an accessing system gets to our website (so-called referrer),
the subsites which are directed to our website via an accessing system,
other similar data and information that serves to avert danger in the event of attacks on our IT systems.
We draw no conclusions about the data subject when using this general data and information. Rather, this information is used to
optimise the content of our website and advertising,
ensure the permanent functionality of our IT systems and the technology of our website, as well as
provide law enforcement agencies with the necessary information for criminal prosecution in the event of a cyber attack
This anonymously-collected data and information is therefore analysed and evaluated statistically with the goal of increasing data protection and data security in our company to ultimately ensure an optimal level of protection for the personal data that we process. The anonymous data of the server log files is separated from all the stored personal data given by a data subject.
Users of our website can register via e.g. a contact form or online application by entering their personal details. Which personal data is transferred depends on the particular input mask used for the registration. The personal data entered by the data subject is collected and stored exclusively for internal use and for our own purposes. The controller may arrange for the data to be transferred to one or more processors, such as a parcel service, which also uses the personal data exclusively for internal use attributable to the controller.
When registering on the website, the IP address of the data subject's internet service provider (ISP), the date and the time of registration are stored. This data is stored only against the background of preventing the misuse of our services, and this data, if required, enables criminal offences committed and copyright infringements to be resolved. To this extent, the storage of this data is required to make this safe. Basically, this data is not shared with third parties, provided that there is no statutory obligation to share the data or sharing the data serves the purposes of a criminal prosecution.
The registration of the data subject through voluntarily sharing personal data helps us to provide you with content and services that can only be offered to registered users due to the nature of the matters concerned. Registered persons have the option to have the personal data given at registration erased completely from the database.
We give information, on request, at any time about which of the data subject's personal data is retained. We correct or erase personal data if the data subject wishes or instructs us to do so, insofar as there is no conflict with statutory retention obligations. With regard to this matter, please contact datenschutz@speick.de
Right of access (right to obtain confirmation)
According to the European regulator, every data subject has the right to obtain from the controller confirmation as to whether or not personal data concerning him or her is being processed. If a data subject would like to demand this right of access (right to obtain confirmation), he or she can contact us at datenschutz@speick.de at any time.
According to the European regulator, every data subject has the right to receive a copy of his or her retained personal data from the controller free of charge. The European regulator has allowed data subjects to receive the following information:
the recipients or categories of recipient to whom the personal data is disclosed or will be disclosed, in particular recipients in third countries or international organisations
where the personal data are not collected from the data subject
The data subject is entitled to all available information on the origin of the data, whether the personal data was sent to a third country or an international organisation. Provided that this is the case, the data subject is, moreover, entitled to receive information about suitable guarantees in connection with the transmission of the data.
If a data subject would like to demand this right to information, he or she can contact us at datenschutz@speick.de at any time.
According to the European regulator, every data subject has the right to demand rectification without undue delay of inaccurate personal data concerning him or her. Taking into account the purposes of the processing, the data subject has the right to have incomplete personal data completed, including by means of providing a supplementary statement.
If a data subject would like to demand this right to rectification, he or she can contact us at datenschutz@speick.de at any time.
According to the European regulator, every data subject has the right to obtain from the controller the erasure of personal data concerning him or her without undue delay and the controller has the obligation to erase personal data without undue delay where one of the following grounds applies:
Provided that one of the above-mentioned reasons applies and a data subject would like the erasure of personal data that is stored by us, he or she can contact our Data Protection Officer or other member of the controller's staff at any time.
The Data Protection Officer or other member of staff will see to it that the erasure request is complied with without undue delay.
Where we have made the personal data public and our company, as the controller, is obliged pursuant to Article 17(1) GDPR to erase the personal data, we, taking account of available technology and the cost of implementation, shall take reasonable steps, including technical measures, to inform controllers which are processing the personal data that the data subject has requested the erasure by such controllers of any links to, or copy or replication of, those personal data. With regard to this, please contact datenschutz@speick.de
According to the right granted by the European regulator, every data subject has the right to obtain from the controller restriction of processing where one of the following applies:
The controller no longer needs the personal data for the purposes of processing, but they are required by the data subject for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims;
The data subject has objected to processing pursuant to Article 21(1) GDPR pending verification of whether the legitimate grounds of the controller override those of the data subject.
Provided that one of the above-mentioned prerequisites applies and a data subject would like to demand the restriction of personal data that is retained by us, he or she can contact us at datenschutz@speick.de at any time.
According to the right granted by the European regulator, every data subject has the right to receive the personal data concerning him or her, which he or she has provided to a controller, in a structured, commonly used and machine-readable format. He or she also has the right to transmit this data to another controller without hindrance from the controller to which the personal data has been provided, where the processing is based on consent pursuant to point (a) of Article 6(1) GDPR or point (a) of Article 9(2) GDPR and the processing is carried out by automated means, provided that the processing is not necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest or in the exercise of official authority vested in the controller.
In exercising his or her right to data portability pursuant to Article 20(1) GDPR, the data subject has the right to have the personal data transmitted directly from one controller to another, where technically feasible and provided that it shall not adversely affect the rights and freedoms of others.
To assert the right to data portability, the data subject can contact us at datenschutz@speick.de at any time.
According to the right granted by the European regulator, every data subject has the right to object, on grounds relating to his or her particular situation, at any time to processing of personal data concerning him or her which is based on point (e) or (f) of Article 6(1) GDPR.
In the event of this objection, we shall no longer process the personal data unless the controller demonstrates compelling legitimate grounds for the processing which override the interests, rights and freedoms of the data subject or for the establishment, exercise or defence of legal claims.
In addition, where personal data are processed for scientific or historical research purposes or statistical purposes pursuant to Article 89(1) GDPR, the data subject, on grounds relating to his or her particular situation, has the right to object to processing of personal data concerning him or her, unless the processing is necessary for the performance of a task carried out for reasons of public interest.
To assert the right to object, the data subject can contact us at datenschutz@speick.de at any time.
The data subject in connection with the use of services of the information company is free to exercise, notwithstanding Directive 2002/58/EU, his or her right to object using automated processes in which technical specifications are used.
According to the European regulator, every data subject is granted the right to withdraw consent to process his or her personal data at any time.
If the data subject would like to assert the right to withdraw consent, he or she can contact us at datenschutz@speick.de at any time.
We collect and process personal data from applicants for the purposes of conducting the application process. The processing can also be carried out electronically or by form. This is the case in particular if an applicant sends relevant application documents to us electronically, for example by email or online. In concluding an employment contract with an applicant, the data transmitted for the purpose of conducting the employment relationship is stored in compliance with statutory regulations. If an employment contract has not been concluded with the applicant, the application documents are automatically erased six months after the rejection decision has been made known, provided that no other legitimate interests conflict with an erasure. Another legitimate interest in this sense is, for example, a burden of proof in legal proceedings in accordance with the German Equal Treatment Act (AGG).
For reasons of security and to protect the transfer of confidential content, such as queries you send to us as the website operator, we use SSL encryption. You can recognise an encrypted connection in that the address line in the browser changes from "http://" to "https://" and the padlock symbol in your browser toolbar. If the SSL encryption is activated, data that you transmit to us cannot be read by third parties.
Data protection regulations for implementing and using YouTube
We have integrated YouTube components on this website. YouTube is an Internet video portal that enables video publishers to show video clips free of charge and also allows other users to watch, evaluate and comment on the clips, also free of charge. YouTube allows the publication of all kinds of videos, whereby both complete film and TV broadcasts as well as music videos, trailers or videos made by users themselves can be downloaded via the Internet portal.
YouTube's operating company is YouTube, LLC, 901 Cherry Ave., San Bruno, CA 94066, US. YouTube, LLC is a subsidiary of Google LLC, 1600 Amphitheatre Pkwy, Mountain View, CA 94043-1351, US.
Every time one of the individual pages of this website that is operated by the controller and on which a YouTube component (YouTube video) has been integrated is accessed, the YouTube component causes the web browser to download and display automatically the YouTube component on the IT system of the data subject. You can obtain further information about YouTube at https://www.youtube.com/yt/about/de. As part of this technical process, YouTube and Google receive knowledge about the actual subpage of our website visited by the data subject.
Provided that the data subject is logged into YouTube at the same time as a subpage is accessed that contains a YouTube video, YouTube recognises the actual subpage of our website that the data subject visits. This information is collected by YouTube and Google and assigned to the YouTube account of the data subject.
Then, through the YouTube component, YouTube and Google always receive information that the data subject has visited our website if the data subject is logged into YouTube at the same time as he or she is accessing our website; this happens regardless of whether the data subject clicks on a YouTube video or not. If the data subject does not want this type of information transmission to YouTube and Google, he or she can prevent the transmission by logging out of their YouTube account before accessing our website.
The data protection regulations published by YouTube, which can be downloaded at https://www.google.de/intl/de/policies/privacy/ , provide information on the collection, processing and use of personal data by YouTube and Google.
Data protection regulations for implementing and using Google Fonts
External fonts are used on these web pages: Google Fonts. Google Fonts is a service of Google LLC ("Google"). The integration of these web fonts is carried out by a server download, usually a Google server in the US. Information on which of our web pages you have visited is transmitted to the server. The IP address of the browser of the end device of the visitor to these web pages is also stored by Google. More details are available in Google's data protection information, which can be downloaded here:
Collaboration with IHD Gesellschaft für Kredit und Forderungsmanagement mbH
We transmit your data in the event of a credit risk (name, address, email address, information on the company and, if required, contract and claims data) for the purpose of credit checking as well as checking whether the address given can be delivered to, and for the purpose of collection processing to IHD Gesellschaft für Kredit und Forderungsmanagement mbH, Augustinusstr. 11 B, 50226 Frechen, and, if required, to other cooperating credit reference agencies. The legal basis of this transmission is point (b) of Article 6(1) GDPR and point (f) of Article 6(1) GDPR. Transmissions based on point (f) Article 6(1) GDPR can only be carried out insofar as this is required to safeguard the legitimate interests of our company and do not outweigh the interests or constitutional rights and fundamental freedoms of the data subject who requires the protection of personal data.
For the purpose of the decision about the reason for, execution or ending of the contractual relationship, we collect or use, in addition, automatically produced probability values, whose calculation can include address data, amongst other things.
Detailed information about our contractual partner, IHD, within the meaning of Article 14 GDPR, i.e. the purpose of the company, the purpose of its data storage, the legal basis, the data recipients of IHD, the right to voluntary disclosure, and the right to erasure and rectification as well as profiling can be obtained at www.ihd.de/datenschutz/Artikel14.html
Information on our contractual partners as a credit reference agency can be obtained at: www.ihd.de/datenschutz#vertragspartner
Imaging of Esophageal Tuberculosis
Home » Imaging of Esophageal Tuberculosis
Nagi, B.; Lal, A.; Kochhar, R.; Bhasin, D. K.; Gulati, M.; Suri, S.; Singh, K.
Acta Radiologica;May2003, Vol. 44 Issue 3, p329
Abstract Purpose: To evaluate the various radiological abnormalities in patients with proven esophageal tuberculosis. Material and Methods: The case records of 23 patients with proven esophageal tuberculosis were evaluated retrospectively for various radiological abnormalities. Twenty-two patients had secondary involvement of esophagus in the form of direct extension of mediastinal and pulmonary tuberculosis or spinal tuberculosis. Only 1 patient had primary involvement of the esophagus with no evidence of disease elsewhere. The diagnosis was confirmed by endoscopic and CT-guided biopsy/aspiration cytology in 7 and 6 cases, respectively. Diagnosis was made on the basis of surgical biopsy of lymph node and autopsy in 1 patient each. In the remaining 8 patients the diagnosis was based on radiological and endoscopic findings and the response to antituberculous treatment. Results: Chest radiography (CXR) was abnormal in 65% patients. While the findings were non-conclusive for esophageal tuberculosis, characteristic lesions of tuberculosis in lungs or spine were suggestive of tuberculous etiology. In 15 patients, CT of the chest confirmed the corresponding CXR findings and also showed additional findings of mediastinal lymphadenopathy when CXR was normal. Fourteen patients showed mediastinal lymphadenopathy on CT of the chest. In all these patients, more than one group of lymph nodes was involved. The characteristic hypodense center of lymph nodes suggestive of tuberculosis was seen in 12 patients. Radiological abnormalities seen in barium swallow examination were extrinsic compression, traction diverticula, strictures, sinus/fistulous tracts, kinking and pseudotumor mass of esophagus in decreasing order of frequency. The middle third of the esophagus was found to be the most frequent site of involvement.
An Unusual Case of Dysphagia: Esophageal Intramural Pseudodiverticulosis. Lax, James D.; Haroutiounian, George; Attia, Albert // American Journal of Gastroenterology;Oct1986, Vol. 81 Issue 10, p1002
A 30-yr-old man presented with chronic dysphagia and a questionable upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage. On endoscopic evaluation, numerous openings were seen throughout the esophagus. Barium esophagram confirmed the diagnosis of esophageal intramural pseudodiverticulosis. The clinical...
Lymphomatous Esophageal Nodules: The Difficulty in Radiological Differential Diagnosis. Gedgaudas-McClees, R. Kristina; Maglinte, Dean D. T. // American Journal of Gastroenterology;Jul1985, Vol. 80 Issue 7, p529
A case of lymphomatous infiltration of the esophagus presenting as diffuse noularity on double contrast esophagraphy is presented. This report is a reminder to the radiologist and clinician of the varied roentgen manifestations of many entities involving the esophagus in the immunocompromised...
Glucagon Is a Safe and Inexpensive Initial Strategy in Esophageal Food Bolus Impaction. Haas, Jason; Leo, Julia; Vakil, Nimish // Digestive Diseases & Sciences;Mar2016, Vol. 61 Issue 3, p841
Background: Controversy exists about the utility of pharmacologic agents and endoscopic technique used for esophageal food bolus impaction.Aim: To evaluate the utility of glucagon and the technique used for endoscopic removal, including the rate of success and the...
Esophageal lung: A rare type of communicating bronchopulmonary foregut malformation, case report with review of literature. Bokka, Sriharsha; Ashok Jaiswal, Ashwin; Behera, Bikram K.; Mohanty, Manoj Kumar; Khare, Manish K.; Garg, Amrish Kumar // Journal of Indian Association of Pediatric Surgeons;Apr-Jun2015, Vol. 20 Issue 2, p92
A 2-year-old female child was referred from a private hospital as a case of recurrent lower respiratory tract infections (LRTI). The chest X ray revealed a hypoplastic right lung and further workup led to the diagnosis of esophageal lung — a rare type of communicating bronchopulmonary...
Our Experience with Esophageal Foreign Bodies. Yetim, Tlin Durgun; Yetim, İbrahim; Bayaroğulları, Hanifi; Davarcı, Işıl // Journal of Academic Emergency Medicine / Akademik Acil Tip Olgu ;Jun2012, Vol. 11 Issue 2, p77
Objective: Foreign bodies in the esophagus can lead to fatal complications if diagnosis and treatment are delayed. The importance of early diagnosis and treatment methods were evaluated in this retrospective study on cases admitted to our clinics with a diagnosis of esophageal foreign body....
Intra-esophageal ph Probe Movement During Eating and Talking. AksglÆde, K.; Funch-Jensen, P.; Thommesen, P. // Acta Radiologica;Mar2003, Vol. 44 Issue 2, p131
Abstract Purpose: To registrate the oscillations of the pH probe in the esophagus during phonation and swallowing in the erect and supine positions. Material and Method: Sixty-seven patients with suspicion of gastroesophageal reflux disease underwent manometry, 24-h pH monitoring, and...
Esophageal Symptoms with Negative Influence on Social Life. AksglÆde, K.; Nellemann, H.; Funch-Jensen, P.; Thommesen, P. // Acta Radiologica;Mar2003, Vol. 44 Issue 2, p127
Abstract Purpose: To correlate the functional changes of the esophagus determined by manometry and radiography using bread and barium with the severity of esophageal symptoms. Material and Methods: Fifty-seven patients, mean age 44.4 years, suspected of primary esophageal motility disorders...
hormone balance therapy teleconsultation | Telemedicine Practitioners
How to Prepare For a Hormone Balance Therapy Teleconsultation
The sudden requirement for popular telehealth has enhanced availability to care for many people and increased treatment options. If you are new to telehealth, preparing for a hormone balance therapy teleconsultation is possibly unknown to you. For people who struggle with hormone imbalance, teleconsultation is a new way of staying connected with practitioners, as it allows for enhanced convenience and privacy.
However, taking the first step can be tedious for some people. By learning how to be ready for a teleconsultation with a hormone balance treatment specialist, you can make sure to get the assistance you require for achieving hormone balance.
Selecting the Right Telehealth Specialist for Treating Hormone Imbalance
These days, many medical experts provide hormone balance treatment through telehealth. However, not every expert is the same and, hence, selecting the right specialist can be crucial for your success. Not every specialist has the resources to provide remote services.
A telehealth expert must provide:
· Accessibility of convenient at-home testing
· Communication through safe telecommunication techniques
· Careful home delivery of medicines and testing
· Tie up with reliable laboratories and pharmacies
Working with a specialist who follows a fundamental telemedicine technique and skills to make a patient-doctor connection remotely is especially crucial for patients with constant medical requirements, such as people with hormonal health problems.
Getting Ready for a Teleconsultation with a Hormone Balance Therapy Expert
Realizing what to expect and how to be ready for a teleconsultation with a hormone treatment specialist can ease your confusion and help you identify your symptoms ASAP. Here are the steps to follow to prepare for an online appointment:
1. Preparing Your Medical Data
To make your teleconsultation effective, you must have all appropriate data available. Such information may incorporate:
· Hormone imbalance symptoms
· Any medicines you are taking these days or have taken earlier
· Any tests from other experts about your symptoms
· Your health objectives
2. Discover a Suitable Spot
To consult your telehealth hormone specialist privately, select a quiet place where you can talk freely without getting distracted. If you have nothing to be embarrassed about, you can easily share your problems.
3. Ensure to Have the Suitable Technology
Ensure to have a suitable device, system, and place to connect to your medical expert. Trouble communication can ruin your teleconsultation.
4. Note down Your Queries
Make sure to write down all your queries so you can easily discuss them at a vital moment.
5. Know the Further Steps
Getting hormone balance treatment includes at-home testing, therapy, and follow-up. Learn what to expect so you can know how to get ready.
These steps will help you see the success!
Finding a specialist who offers hormone balance therapy teleconsultation may help you reduce your destructive symptoms and recover your health. So, if your hormones are out of balance, feel free to connect with Telemedicine Practitioners. Our trained practitioners can analyze your requirements and customize a treatment plan to help you accomplish your health objectives.
W. Groot | Semantic Scholar
268 Publications, 4,199 Citations
61 Publications, 1,464 Citations
176 Publications, 2,457 Citations
Backgroundl-lactide is the monomer for the polymer poly-l-lactic acid (PLLA). PLLA can be made from renewable resources, and is used in an increasing amount of applications. The biopolymer PLLA is… Expand
W. Groot, J. V. Krieken, Olav Sliekersl, S. D. Vos
Natural polymers, biopolymers, and synthetic polymers based on annually renewable resources are the basis for the twenty-first-century portfolio of sustainable, eco-efficient plastics [1]. These… Expand
What have 10 years of health insurance reforms brought about in Bulgaria? Re-appraising the Health Insurance Act of 1998.
E. Atanasova, M. Pavlova, Robert Velickovski, B. Nikov, E. Moutafova, W. Groot
This article discusses the financial reforms in the Bulgarian public health care sector. Since 1998, when the Bulgarian parliament passed the Health Insurance Act, compulsory contributions for social… Expand
Chipo Mutyambizi, F. Booysen, A. Stokes, M. Pavlova, W. Groot
Background Inequalities in diabetes are widespread and are exacerbated by differences in lifestyle. Many studies that have estimated inequalities in diabetes make use of self-reported diabetes which… Expand
W. Groot, H. M. Brink
We use two waves of a Dutch longitudinal survey to analyze the dynamics of overeducation. It is found that the dynamics in overeducation are high. Only a small fraction of workers are long-term… Expand
F. Obale-Ebanga, J. Sevink, W. Groot, C. Nolte
. A study was conducted to assess the impact of agricultural land use history on macro-aggregate (4.0–4.8 mm) stability in the 0–5 cm layers of Chromic and 'Hydromorphic' Vertisols in north Cameroon.… Expand
A. Amagir, W. Groot, H. M. Brink, Arie Wilschut
Abstract We examined levels of financial literacy (knowledge, attitudes, self-efficacy, and self-reported behavior) among 15-year-old high school students in the Netherlands (N = 2025), and… Expand
Costs and revenues of investment in enterprise-related schooling.
W. Groot, J. Hartog, H. Oosterbeek
In this paper, a general specification of the wage equation is used to derive a marginal revenue equation for enterprise-related schooling. The optimal amount of investment in enterprise-related… Expand
Pharmacy-led interventions to improve medication adherence among adults with diabetes: A systematic review and meta-analysis.
Bobby Presley, W. Groot, M. Pavlova
BACKGROUND Control of blood glucose and a reduced risk of complications are important treatment goals in diabetes. Medication non-adherence can influence the outcome of diabetes. Involvement of a… Expand
The use of community-based social services by elderly people at risk of institutionalization: an evaluation.
P. V. van Bilsen, J. P. H. Hamers, W. Groot, C. Spreeuwenberg
OBJECTIVE To examine the use of community-based social services by elderly people at risk of institutionalization, who prefer to remain at home. METHODS A study with a longitudinal design… Expand
