When it comes to dieting, far too often we take those first steps towards weight loss bliss for what we later determine are all the wrong reasons. Ultimately however, if your reason works for you there is no truly wrong reason to diet. The trick is in finding the reason that will actually work for you. I’ve seen all kinds of excellent motivators when it comes to dieting and taking your dieting seriously. One of the more common reasons is …
actually / children / comes / diet / getting / need / one / order / others / over / people / person / physical / possible / problem / right / simply / taking / things / time	
There are a number of methods to choose a Cosmetic Dentist, some great, some bad. Listed below I explain some great techniques, and some that aren’t so excellent. The best method: The very best way to select your cosmetic dentist is to put in some legwork. Don’t remain in a hurry; this is a decision that might last a lifetime. Interview a minimum of two or 3 cosmetic dental practitioners, and ask to see before and after photos of the …
Dieting is far too often approached from the mindset of impending failure. Too many people have tried and failed so many diets in their past that they try the next new diet with the absolute knowledge that they will fail in this attempt as well. Guess what? They will. Henry Ford once said, “If you think you can or think you can’t you will always be right.” If you think you are going to fail at this diet you are …
actually / benefit / comes / diet / helps / knowledge / making / medical / need / one / order / over / people / person / plans / right / simply / think / time / world	
There is no greater reason to diet than for your personal health and well being. Those of us who are overweight know better than most the risks and possible consequences that may result because of our weight. Much like smokers however, the risks do not always seem quite so cut and dry until we reach our very own turning point. Whether your eating habits are born of an addiction to certain foods, an emotional need, or years of learned behavior …
Very few people realize the profound effect that weight has on diabetes. Even instances of gestational diabetes are much greater in patients that are overweight than in those that are not. Type 2, or adult onset diabetes is more commonly found in overweight people than those that are within their ‘ideal’ weight ranges. In fact, almost 90% of those with Type 2 diabetes are overweight. If you are suffering from Type 2 diabetes, the best gift you could possibly give …
Cosmetic Dentistry Today can shape, lighten up, shade, line up, and replace teeth with exceptional materials and methods. When your smile is healthy and gorgeous, the benefits can follow. Initially an enhanced self-image influences a much better oral health and an enhancement in your general health. Can you really state you’re teeth are white? According to a survey taken by the American Academy of Cosmetic Dentistry (AACD), when asked, “What pleased you least about your smile?” The primary response people …
Having high blood cholesterol increases the danger of cardiovascular disease or stroke. It can be avoided with the help of a cholesterol test set. Cholesterol test package was first authorized for public use in 1993. At that time, home cholesterol test sets just find the overall cholesterol level. Now, it identifies the LDL cholesterol, HDL cholesterol, triglycerides and even glucose level in the blood. Cholesterol test set work by using chemical analysis from the blood drawn from a finger prick …
Many women need to change the size and shape of their labia. The improvement of the labia size or shape will gain you more confidence with desire look.
There may be some medical reasons why women want to get labia surgery. The overly large or thick labia can give you discomfort when engaging in sports and physical activities.
To reshape female genital, it is a cosmetic surgery that normally done under general anesthesia or local anesthesia that may be combined with sedative chemical.
Labia reduction surgery is mainly focus on the desire of the patient and the recommendation of the surgeon. Normally the surgery will take only one hour to get things done.The procedure of labia reduction will be done by reducing the size of the inner labia which is the inner genital lips. To do this the surgeon has to cut away unwanted labia tissue to make the desired shape.
Also the surgeon may remove a wedge-shaped section of the labia, leaving the front intact then remove the tissue from behind. Therefore the color of the labia will has no change and it will be easily noticeable after the surgery.
To reduce the bleeding we can use a laser instead of a scalpel. This is alternative choice due to further discussion with the surgeon. You may have to stay in the clinic or hospital overnight. After the surgery you will need 1 week off work to rest. Also it is recommended to have high standard of hygiene in the process of recovery.The surgery time is approximately 1 hour or less under local anesthesia.
To get the best result of labia reduction, you need to do the computer image for yourself to see the different between before and after. If you have a chance to see the different before getting things done then you are likely to get the result that you want.
The patient must abstain from sexual activity or any intercourse for the first three months. The stitch will dissolve within 2 weeks. Due to the reason, there might be a lump developed, it will disappear after a month or two.
Library Home - Reporting and Investigation
University Employees (administrators, faculty, staff and student employees)
ICO-1.01A
The University Integrity and Compliance Office (UICO) maintains a compliance reporting system and initiates and coordinates a prompt investigation of questionable practices, including compliance and ethical concerns. Confidentiality of reports and investigations will be maintained to the extent legal and practical and will only be shared with individuals who have a need to know. The following procedures establish the UICO's reporting and investigation protocol.
A. Reports of Questionable Practices: Reports and complaints of questionable practices may be made by anyone having knowledge or information about a known or suspected questionable practice. Reports may be made orally or in writing; however, reports shall be provided to the VP for Risk, Audit, and Compliance or the UICO for coordination of a thorough and confidential investigation. A report should contain the following information:
1. A factual, objective description of the questionable practice, including dates and times.
2. The name of the individual or department about which the report is being made.
3. If the questionable practice involves potential violation of laws, regulations, or university policies and procedures.
4. The names of other individuals knowing about the questionable practices.
5. Other information deemed necessary to conduct a thorough investigation.
B. Reporting System: An effective reporting system makes the reporting individual feel comfortable in seeking guidance and disclosing information without threat of retaliation (Duty to Report and Non-Retaliation Policy ICO-1.01). Reporting can be made in any of the following ways:
1. Report directly to the VP for Risk, Audit, and Compliance or the UICO by phone at 502-852-8305, by email compliance@louisville.edu, or send a report by mail to our office:
University Integrity and Compliance Office
425 West Lee Street
2. Report through the University's Compliance and Ethics Hotline:
a) Call the hotline:
The Direct Dial 24-hour University Compliance and Ethics Hotline is: 1-877-852-1167. Third party compliance risk specialists will receive and enter the details of the report into the vendor's electronic case management system (mycompliancemanagement.com or "myCM 3.0"). In managing the system, the UICO will review the report and coordinate a prompt investigation.
b) Submit an electronic report to the hotline:
The University Compliance and Ethics Hotline system includes a web reporting option available to university employees. Enter the details of the report directly into the hotline system. In managing the system, the UICO will review and coordinate a prompt investigation.
C. Investigation: Upon receipt of a report of questionable practice, the UICO shall act promptly to review and assign responsibility of investigating the report to the UICO and/or other university compliance official(s). The UICO and/or other university compliance official(s) may obtain further information necessary to corroborate or dispute the report. In conducting the investigation, the UICO and/or university compliance official(s) shall:
1. Gather and review relevant documents, records, and facts;
2. Interview university employees or affiliates who may be able to provide relevant information;
3. Engage with other individuals, departments/units, or committees to assist in the investigation, as determined necessary;
4. Provide awareness about the university's policy on non-retaliation Duty to Report and Non-Retaliation Policy ICO-1.01 to individuals interviewed during the course of the investigation; and
5. Document the investigation in an objective manner.
Depending upon the nature of the initial report of questionable practice, the UICO and/or university compliance official(s) may consult with the Office of the VP for Strategy and General Counsel for advice regarding the investigation.
Audit Services has the primary responsibility for coordinating the initial assessment, investigation, and internal reporting of known or suspected fiscal misconduct - see the university's Fiscal Misconduct Policy ICO-1.03.
D. Reports: The UICO and/or other university compliance official(s) conducting the investigation shall report to appropriate university management and/or employees the results of the investigation and whether corrective action is recommended.
The university is committed to conducting its affairs in full compliance with the law and with its own policies and procedures. The purpose of this procedure is to allow for prompt investigations of concerns reported and to establish reporting and investigation protocols in support of the Duty to Report and Non-Retaliation Policy ICO-1.01.
Duty to Report and Non-Retaliation Policy ICO-1.01
Fiscal Misconduct Policy ICO-1.03
University Employees: Individuals who are administrators, faculty, staff, and/or student employees.
This procedure replaces and supersedes Institutional Compliance Office Policy ICO-005 entitled "Reporting and Investigation."
Revision Date(s): March 4, 2019 minor revisions; January 25, 2019; December 20, 2017; April 25, 2016; October 27, 2015; November 4, 2014; December 18, 2013; November 20, 2013; March 5, 2013; November 29, 2011
Reviewed Date(s): January 25, 2019; December 20, 2017; April 25, 2016; October 27, 2015; November 4, 2014
I had a hernia fixed over a year ago There | Ask The Doctor (800) 310-3470or HELP We are here to help Send an email Call us:
(800) 310-3470 Mon - Fri: 6 am - 6 pm PST Ask a Doctor LOGIN SIGNUP How It Works Browse Q&A SIGNUP / LOGIN Home Browse Question and Answer LibraryGeneralI had a hernia fixed over a year ago There I had a hernia fixed over a year ago There Would you like to select a specialist: Optional Let Ask The Doctor choose Anesthesiology Cardiac Surgery Cardiology Critical Care Medicine Dental Dermatology Diagnostic Radiology Endocrinology ENT Family Medicine Gastroenterology General Surgery Geriatrics Hematology Infectious Diseases Internal Medicine Medical Oncology Nephrology Neurology Neurosurgery Nuclear Medicine Obstetrics and Gynecology Ophthalmology Orthopedic Surgery Pathology Pediatrics Plastic Surgery Psychiatry Pulmonology Radiation Oncology Rehabitation Medicine Rheumatology Sexual Health Thoracic Surgery Urology Vascular Surgery Get Answer I had a hernia fixed over a year ago There Patient : I had a hernia fixed over a year ago. There was a little tear to the side of my navel. Im pretty skinny built. Is it normal to see and feel a little bump in the spot it was repaired? General Doctor
Are you encountering a medication test as part of your upcoming interview for a chance? Have you been using medications as well as hence bothered with the end result of the test? If you responded to yes to all the inquiries over, stress say goodbye to. Because after reading this, you'll have the ability to pass your drug test and also obtain that opportunity you've for so long prayed for. Hair Testing For Drugs How To Pass Texas
By the way, many organizations subject prospects to an obligatory medicine test as part of their employment procedure. So are lots of sporting activities groups when employing brand-new players. Basically, numerous opportunities nowadays are acquirable only when you are tidy without medications in your system. But allow that not fret you excessive if you have a history of using drugs since you can conveniently cleanse and also cleanse your body, getting rid of all the traces of medicines in your body. Having said that, let me show you how to assured pass a hair medicine examination, which is an usual method made use of by lots of companies to look for drugs.
Alright, the first thing you'll need to do away with medicine traces in your system is a great toxin remover product like the Old Design Toxin Rid hair shampoo. How does this Aloe Vera made shampoo job to detoxify the body? Exactly how reliable and also simple it is to pass a hair medication test with this item? Exactly how reputable and trustworthy is it?–( this is the very best alternative and the most trusted). From where can it be obtained?
Before I clarify how this product functions, let me provide a brief summary of it to assist you comprehend the procedure much better. Of all, the plan comes with just one thing i.e the Testclear Old Style Aloe Toxin Rid. You may see an extra ultra tidy hair shampoo called "Zyndot Ultra Clean" connected to it in one of the product images though. Please note that the second hair shampoo is bought independently and it's not part of the package. Also, the Testclear Old Style Contaminant Rid shampoo functions best with the Zyndot Ultra Clean hair shampoo. Thus, it's ideal to purchase the whole pair.
Each item is implied to be used individually. You are expected to utilize the Old Design Aloe Toxin Rid numerous times 3-10 days before the day of the drug test. It comes in an 8-ounce bottle that contains 5 ounces of the shampoo, which suffices to utilize more than when. On the other hand, the Zyndot Ultra Clean hair shampoo is expected to be utilized once i.e on the morning of the D-day.
Relative to just how this item functions, the hair shampoo utilizes advanced microsphere technology to offer a progressive release of all toxic substances from the shaft of the customer's hair. This deep-cleaning formula slowly deteriorates all the pollutants stuck in your hair, making it possible for water to lug them away each time you wash your hair. It does that while making sure hair is not harmed. And after that, the other hair shampoo i.e the Zyndot Ultra Clean shampoo will deeply detoxify your hair, totally removing minority remaining medication contaminants from it. When you take a hair medicine test after that, you can be certain that your results will certainly be adverse, in spite of you having actually made use of medicines in the past.
As stated earlier, the Testclear Old Style Contaminant Rid shampoo is best made use of with the Zyndot Ultra Clean hair shampoo. You are meant to make use of one product at once. For instance, the Testclear Old Design Contaminant Rid hair shampoo is to be utilized 3 to 10 days prior to the upcoming medication test. On the other hand, the Zyndot Ultra Clean hair shampoo is to be utilized on the early morning of the day of the real test. Hair Testing For Drugs How To Pass Texas
What happens if your medication test is up in less than 3 days? Because situation, do not worry about that due to the fact that this item still has actually got you covered. Just do multiple hair washes a day. Throughout each wash, use the shampoo like you would certainly use a typical one. Rinse your hair with water, apply and also massage therapy the hair shampoo carefully into the roots of your hair and the scalp too( since that is where most contaminants consisting of those that come from drugs are discovered). Then let it rest lathered in your hair for about 10-15 minutes prior to washing your hair tidy with water.
Zyndot Ultra Clean Hair shampoo is the item that you are supposed to make use of to guarantee your body is absolutely tidy with absolutely no medication traces. This powerful internal hair cleansing treatment removes the last toxic substances of all way from your hair shaft. It's applied just once. To get the most efficient results, simply utilize this effective internal hair detoxifying therapy in the same way you used its counterpart.
Testclear Old Design Toxic substance rid shampoo pack that includes an extra shampoo referred to as "Zyndot Ultra Clean" is 100% reliable when it involves assisting drug users pass a medicine test. That's backed by the truth that it's ranked 5 stars, on average, by consumers most of who left favorable responses on the product's website.
One purchaser from Lowell with the username "Traveling Dutchman4122DLB1″ created and I estimate" It works … I kant believe it works! I trusted Testclear and obtained my work passed my hair example test effortlessly." There are a number of other customer testimonials regarding this item on the site. You can go below and scroll down to review them. It's safe to claim that this is a 100 percent reliable and also credible service for passing a medicine test if you have been utilizing marijuana, drug, meth, or other prohibited compounds.
I recognize that the concern that lingers on your mind at this moment is "Where can I purchase Textclear Old Design Toxin Rid shampoo with additional Zyndot Ultra Clean hair shampoo?" From a regional chemist, health facility, or grocery store near you? Well, while the response is none of those, this remains among the easiest-to-acquire treatments for passing a medicine examination. You can order it on the internet by going to the product page. {Alternatively, you can replicate and also paste this link to your browser and click "enter" or "search" to go to this web page.|You can replicate and click on this web link to your web browser.
The Hair Confirm Package is one that goes hand in hand with the hair cleansing product over i.e the Old Style Toxin Rid shampoo. Prior to you begin using the last, you'll initially need to test on your own if you will pass your upcoming drug examination. That is where the previous comes in.
This package allows users to discover the presence of any of over five different drugs in the body. These drugs include marijuana, cocaine, meth, ecstasy, opiates, as well as phencyclidine. If you have actually made use of any one of them in the past, this kit will certainly help you confirm whether the traces of the medication are still existing in your body such that you would stop working the actual medication examination or they have vanished such that you would pass it.
Please do note that this package will only spot drug use dating back to up to 90 days earlier. However you don't need to fret in all intend your medication background dates back to more than 90 days earlier. That's due to the fact that it will certainly not be detected by the real examination, thanks to the hair follicle medicine examination, which is the common method used to look for medication history.
Making Use Of the Hair Confirm drug examination set is as straightforward as adhering to the detailed directions that include the set. These guidelines lead you on exactly how to collect a little sample of your hair and also send it to the research laboratory for evaluation. Your hair sample should include in between 90 and 120 hairs. They additionally direct you on exactly how to register your examination to be able to examine your results online after 2-3 days after you send your example. What you'll require below is your email address along with the HairConfirm ® Sampling ID number and passcode, which you will be provided. To check your results, just most likely to the results area on the system and also check out the data. That's essentially how to make use of the set.
Hair Testing For Drugs How To Pass Texas – Review and Explanation
If your results end up being positive, it's time to purchase Testclear Old Style Toxin Rid as well as Zyndot Ultra Clean shampoo pair online. Begin purifying as well as freing your body of the contaminants in prep work for the last medicine test. Regardless of how much marijuana or any other prohibited substance you've soaked up in the past 90 days, this item will make certain that your drug test results turn out adverse.
This is a sibling of the Hair Confirm hair drug examination set. It comes from the same brand that distributes the last i.e Examination Clear Medicine Testing Advisors. Hair Confirm Express is really the same to its equivalent, which is Hair Validate hair medication test package. It evaluates and also identifies all the above drugs and also materials simply like its counterpart does. Also, it operates in similarly the other hair drug test kit functions. Both sets are 100 percent efficient and also it's all up to you to select one between both.
The inquiry that's perhaps sticking around on your mind at this point is, "Why should I select a Confirm Hair drug examination package over another selection readily available?" Well, you need to know that these two hair medication test kits stand out from the rest because they;.
Wondering regarding exactly how to acquire a Hair Confirm drug test package? Well, the procedure is very easy simply click as well as paste among the links below to your web browser and afterwards hit "get in." Each URL will certainly lead you to the product web page of an individual test package. No jumping from one drug store to an additional, one supermarket to another, or one healthcare center to another searching for a package. All you need to do is shop conveniently on the internet from the convenience of your residence or wherever you are.
Solution: No, Hair Confirm and Hair Confirm Express are two different selections of hair medication test kits dispersed by the very same brand i.e testclear.com. Both kits offer the exact same purpose.
Solution: Anyone, dealing with a medication examination that has actually utilized a prohibited drug or substance within the last 90 days.
Response: Anybody who wants to check if a medicine test they face would identify the residue of the drug they have used in the last 90 days.
Gone are the days when we utilized to worry about missing out on a chance because of stopping working a medicine examination, thanks to the products over. If you've been making use of drug, meth, marijuana, or any other forbidden material as well as invited to a medicine test meeting, these products can cleanse and also detoxify your hair one hundred percent so that medicine traces aren't detected. If you want to purchase them, simply adhere to the simple guidelines over.
When lots of people think about a drug testing process, they envision a drug-testing maker. While there's no magic tablet that can make you pass a real hair medication screening procedure, there are many methods to pass hair medicine testing if you choose to complete the invasive process.
If you wonder regarding what a hairs-follicles medicine screening actually entails and also why it is thought about such a poor concept, continued reading below for several of the a lot more common myths, presumptions, and also facts regarding the whole challenge. Many people who are undergoing such an examination do not know exactly what they are doing. They may think that all they need to do is simply clean their hands and the hair tests will certainly be over. The fact, however, is a lot different.
There are actually several steps associated with medicine screening. The first step includes taking a swab from the hair and also sending it off to be assessed at a research laboratory. The second action is to send the hair sample back to the lab and to wait a specific amount of time for outcomes.
After that, it depends on the worker to take it house and attempt to recreate the certain length of hair that was experienced before sending it off. This is where it gets complicated due to the fact that a person that has never ever been drug examined before being often overwhelmed about how to get it done.
Some individuals likewise erroneously believe that a person can pass hair roots drug screening by simply touching their finger to the drug deposit on the hair sample. Nonetheless, there is a really rigorous procedure that has to be adhered to, as any contact with the example could harm the example and also make it impossible to get it analyzed once again.
There are also different hair screening procedures that need to be complied with relying on what sort of example that is being dealt with. For example, a person who is obtaining urine screening need to be instructed on just how to drink the urine bottle correctly to weaken the pee. If the sample is being handled for hair screening, then one would certainly need to take the hair and placed it right into a vial for evaluation.
It's additionally crucial to keep in mind that there are a variety of points that have to be done in the proper way. If a person is unsure concerning what to do, after that they need to not go to an individual lab to carry out the procedure. Instead, they can work with a laboratory to do the test for them. The last point that you intend to do is to figure out after the treatment is complete that you are really on medications or that the procedure was messed up.
The advantage regarding being tested for drugs is that there is still a means to obtain clean as well as clear outcomes despite the fact that the procedure itself may be a little untidy. Although there are numerous misconceptions available regarding exactly how to pass hair drug screening, there are lots of people that pick to undergo the process anyhow.
Many people that are taking medicine for cancer, asthma, bipolar affective disorder, as well as HIV are occasionally placed on drugs during their recovery process. This means that if a person takes drugs, their hair roots will also be examined for feasible medications throughout the process, but there is no danger to them as long as they take the medicines according to the prescriptions.
There are also individuals who think that they can pass a hair medication test merely by touching their tongue to something that is on the drug example. Although it is feasible, it's most likely best to be mindful and also avoid using their tongues when handling the samples.
Naturally, there are people who think that it is impossible to pass a hair medication screening just by touching their fingers. Touching a medicine deposit in this fashion can result in incorrect negatives, it is additionally possible to detect medications even if they are on a test strip.
Ultimately, some people believe that they can pass a hair medication testing by rubbing the sample straight onto their skin or hair. While this approach may function, it is not recommended due to the fact that many hair follicles will certainly not absorb the drug.
Previous PostBest Way To Pass Hair Follicle Test Mississippi Next PostHair Drug Test Time Frame Nevada
Whenever I meet people and tell them what I do, there is often a pause, then a comment similar to “I didn’t know there were animal chiropractors”. The next bit of conversation is often, “What do you treat?”.
What do I treat?
I treat the four legged members of your family; dogs, cats, rabbits, etc. They can benefit from proper care even if they are not showing the signs of anything being wrong. It is caring to be proactive in managing their problems before they start to limp, change their posture, or become weak. Good diet, proper exercise, tailored veterinary care, and chiropractic care are all part of the wellness care we want for your pet.
Once they become symptomatic, the most common issues include limping, weakness, altered posture, inflammation, stiffness, muscle spasm, muscle loss, toe dragging, poor coordination, incontinence, inability to settle/pacing, increased panting, decreased desired to walk, run, and jump, and hot spots.
All of these problems can be from pinched nerves from a combination of spinal misalignment, inflammation, often with IVDD (intervertebral disc disease/herniation) or spondylosis (arthritic changes) or from pain causing an overstimulation of the nervous system.
What’s next?
A thorough history, postural and gait assessment, orthopedic and neurological testing, and palpation guide me to the specific problems with your pet. I explain what is wrong and right with your family member, propose a care plan. The care plan will vary by what is wrong and may include spinal adjustments, acupuncture, rehabilitation exercises, exercise prescription, and coordination of care with your veterinarian.
Pets
26 views0 comments
Post not marked as liked
Recent Posts
See All
Do dogs like coming to my office?
2540
1 like. Post not marked as liked1
Causes of arthritis? Does it hurt?
Frequently osteoarthritis, which is the most common form of joint degeneration, is caused by either too much or not enough motion. This is entirely different than an infection in the joint, aka septic
Mehmet Ali Gök1, Mehmet Tolga Kafadar2,* and Serkan Fatih Yeğen3
Health Sciences University Derince Training and Research Hospital Clinic of General Surgery, Kocaeli, Turkey
Dicle University School of Medicine, Department of General Surgery, Diyarbakır, Turkey
* Corresponding author: Mehmet Tolga Kafadar,Dicle University School of Medicine, Department of General Surgery, Diyarbakır, Turkey. Tel: + 904122488001-4679; Email: drtolgakafadar@hotmail.com
Received 2020 August 18; Revised 2020 September 20; Accepted 2020 October 15.
Keywords: Carbohydrate, Laparoscopic cholecystectomy, Preoperative fasting
Since previous decades, 8-hour-total preoperative fasting has remained a routine procedure to avoid aspiration pneumonia due to the regurgitation of gastric contents in perioperative and postoperative periods. Moreover, this preoperative fasting is still considered a necessity in many hospitals (1, 2). However, in recent years, most studies have recommended radical modifications in the fasting policy; accordingly, the standard approach of absolute fasting since midnight is now becoming more and more flexible allowing a period of limited fluid, with or without carbohydrate, intake up to 2 h before surgical intervention (3-5). Transit periods of carbohydrate-rich solutions from the stomach to duodenum are shorter than 2 h (1).
Nowadays, it is well known that presurgical oral food replacement with carbohydrate-rich fluids may decrease both preoperative and postoperative thirst and hunger in all age groups (3). Moreover, many randomized controlled trials have demonstrated the reduction of nausea and vomiting due to the use of oral CHO solutions before surgery (6-8). In addition, current studies have reported that shortening the fasting period with preoperative oral CHO-rich solutions has a positive effect on postoperative stress and recovery by decreasing insulin resistance, sparing the muscle proteins, and preserving the functions of the immune system (9-11).
Obviously, cholelithiasis is one of the most prevalent gastroenterological pathology (12). Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is extensively applied in routine general and visceral surgical practice; therefore, the current study aimed to evaluate the efficacy of reducing the preoperative fasting period using oral CHO-rich solutions in the thirst, hunger, nausea, and vomiting of patients undergoing elective cholecystectomy.
The present study was carried out on 4 male and 38 female patients with the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) grade of I-II within the age range of 18-70 years undergoing elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy due to symptomatic cholelithiasis. The patients with a body mass index (BMI) of over 40 kg/m², need for an additional intervention (e.g., perioperative cholangiography due to concomitant common bile duct stones), acute/ chronic cholecystitis and serious comorbidities (e.g., diabetes mellitus, endocrine disorders, cardio-vascular pathologies, neurologic and/or psychiatric diseases, hepatic failure, obstructive jaundice, and additional gastrointestinal disorders), and previous visceral abdominal surgeries were excluded from the study to ensure the homogeneity. In addition, the patients who had reflux or indigestion history and were under pharmacotherapy which could affect the gastrointestinal motility were excluded from the study. All the included subjects were operated on before 11.00 a.m. on the day of the surgery.
The patients were divided into two groups, one by one, according to the administration of carbohydrate and fasting. The study subjects in group 1 (n=21) were fasting since midnight. The participants in group 2 (n=21) received peroral CHO-rich solution with 12.5% dextrose (125 g of granulated sugar melted in 1 L of drinking water; 800 and 200 mL 8 and 2 h before the surgery, respectively).
In order to properly evaluate differences between both groups, the patients from each group were chosen by a computerized randomization program on the previous day before the surgery. All the participants were operated on within 09:00 and 12:00 a.m. All the patients were scheduled for elective standard 4-port-access laparoscopic cholecystectomy, with a standard 13 mmHg intraabdominal pressure. In addition, the length of hospital stay was reported as 24 h. The intraabdominal CO2 was evacuated at the end of the operation from the umbilical access port.
For standardization, the patients received no premedication before the surgery. Routine general anesthesia was induced with intravenous thiopental (5 mg/kg), fentanyl (1 μg/kg), and rocuronium (0.6 mg/kg). During the surgery, anesthesia was maintained using 65% nitrous oxide and 1% sevoflurane in 35% oxygen with the help of an endotracheal tube. At the end of the surgery, perioperative curarization was antagonized by neostigmine and atropine. Ringer lactate solution was used for intraoperative and postoperative fluid replacement in both groups. The study subjects were allowed to drink and eat at the 6th and 8th postoperative hours, respectively. The patients received intravenous tramadol treatment for analgesia during the first 24 h.
The main assessed criteria in this study were thirst, hunger, and nausea (at the 9th preoperative hour and 30 min before the surgery) in addition to nausea and vomiting (at the 2nd, 8th, and 24th postoperative hours). The age, gender, BMI, and operational time of all the patients were also evaluated in the present study.
The major limitation of the current trial was the lack of a placebo group. In several clinical randomized controlled studies on this topic, the patients were divided into three control, placebo, and oral intake groups. Multivariate analysis between the control, oral CHO intake, and placebo groups would provide more accurate data on the efficacy of preoperative CHO-rich fluids. Another limitation was the relatively low number of patients. However, these controversial results of the present pilot trial encouraged the authors to design other prospective clinical controlled studies with a larger sample size. Furthermore, insulin resistance, anxiety, and recovery were not evaluated in this study; nevertheless, they were assessed in several studies. Therefore, the simplicity of the study might be considered a relative limitation. Additionally, the authors believed that the investigation of a limited number of variables within a strictly homogenized trial allowed achieving more precise data.
The statistical analyses were performed using SPSS software (Statistical Package for the Social Sciences; version 21.0; SPSS Inc., Chicago, Illinois, USA). Descriptive statistics were reported as mean±standard deviation for normally distributed variables and median (minimum-maximum) for nonnormally distributed variables. For the categorical data, descriptive variables were reported as frequency and percentage. The Mann-Whitney U test and independent samples t-test were used for the intergroup comparisons of the continuous variables. The comparison of the categorical variables was conducted using Fisher's exact test, Chi-square test, and Yates' correction for continuity. Spearman's rank correlation coefficient was used for the calculation of the relationship between the variables. In all statistical tests, an α value of 0.05 and a p-value of less than 0.05 were considered statistically significant.
All the patients scheduled for laparoscopic cholecystectomy in Ali Osman Sönmez Oncology Hospital Clinic of General Surgery, Bursa, Turkey, were prospectively included in this study. The present study was conducted according to the principles of the Declaration of Helsinki (Ethical Principles for Medical Research Involving Human Subjects) developed by the World Medical Association (modified in October 2013). This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Bursa Yüksek İhtisas Training and Research Hospital in Turkey (Approval/RCT no.: 2011-KAEK-25 2015/24-02). Written informed consent was obtained from the patients who participated in this study.
A total of 42 patients were included in this clinical trial. In addition, 4 (9.5%) and 38 (90.5%) participants were male and female, respectively. The mean age and BMI values of the patients were 48.38±12.68 years and 29.85±5.20 kg/m², respectively. The median operational time was reported as 36.5 min (range: 26-114 min). No statistical difference was observed between the groups in terms of age, BMI, and operational time (Table 1).
At the first investigation of patients (i.e., 9 h before cholecystectomy), there was no statistical difference between the two groups in thirst, hunger, and nausea. On the other hand, the second investigation (i.e., 30 min before cholecystectomy) revealed that the rates of hungry and thirsty patients were higher in group 1 than those reported for group 2 with patients undergoing oral replacement with CHO-enriched fluid (P=0.003 and P=0.032). Statistical analysis did not show any differences between the groups in terms of nausea at the second preoperative investigation (Table 2).
The statistical analysis of the data recorded 2 and 8 h after the surgery demonstrated a significant difference between the groups regarding nausea. At the 2nd and 8th postoperative hours, the rate of patients complaining of nausea was higher in group 2, compared to that reported for group 1 (P=0.048 and P=0.014). No statistically significant difference was observed between the groups with regard to postoperative vomiting (Table 2). No correlation was observed between the age and BMI parameters and both preoperative and postoperative thirst, hunger, and nausea. Statistical analysis showed that operational time did not have any effects on postoperative thirst, hunger, and nausea.
Table 1. Comparison of groups in terms of age, body mass index, and operational time
(Fasting) n (%)
(Carbohydrate intake) n (%)
50.00±14.24
46.76±11.01
48.38±12.68
29.69±4.73
(22.80-37.10)
30.01±5.74
(17.96-39.95)
29.85±5.20
(26.00-89.00)
(26.00-114.00)
(26-114)
Table 2. Comparison of groups in terms of thirst, hunger, nausea, and vomiting
(Carbohydrate intake)
0.999 (1.000)*
** Yates' correction for continuity
Table 3. Correlations between assessed criteria
r=-0.369
r=0.093
r=-0.349
Negative correlations between thirst and hunger complaints investigated just before the surgery and vomiting at the 8th postoperative hour were shown
by statistical analysis (P=0.016, r=-0.369;P=0.024, r=-0.349). Table 3 tabulates statistically significant correlations among the parameters of thirst, hunger, nausea, and vomiting.
Fast track surgery, which is a multidisciplinary approach to facilitate and quicken the recovery period, has become more and more substantial in major surgical practice since the early 90's (13). Nowadays, it is well known that fast-track protocols reduce complication rates and improve functional recovery (13-15). In this concept, patient care is categorized into three stages of before, during, and after surgery. The preoperative phase of fast track procedures includes preoperative fasting and carbohydrate treatment protocols. The Enhanced Recovery After Surgery (ERAS) guidelines recommended an oral intake of clear liquids up to 2 h before elective surgery and reported that it did not increase gastric residual volume. Based on the guidelines, it is also advised that patients without diabetes should be loaded with preoperative oral carbohydrate solutions before major surgeries (16-18).
Despite recent meta-analyses and reviews, it is hard not to follow the old "nil after midnight" fasting protocol for many surgeons and anesthesiologists. The main reason for strict fasting policies is to avoid perioperative aspiration complications (19). Accelerated Total Postoperative Recovery, a worldwide patient care project based on the clinical trials carried out by ASA and ERAS, restricts solid oral alimentation intake 6 h before anesthesia and suggests a 200 ml intake of clear fluid increased by 12% maltodextrin (20).
A review study carried out by Ludwig et al. (20) in 2013 analyzed 38 randomized clinical trials. According to the results of the aforementioned study, it was concluded that the reduction of the presurgical fasting period with a high carbohydrate solution did not pose any risk of morbidity or mortality due to regurgitation/aspiration. Likewise, Manchikanti et al. (21) reported that reduced duration of preoperative fasting did not increase the risk of respiratory depression.
Moreover, some studies demonstrated that the gastric ingredient volume of most participants who have been preoperatively drinking clear fluids (e.g., water) was lower than that of the subjects with conventional fasting regimen (20, 22, 23). It has been proven for more than 2 decades that the gastric transition time of 400-mL 285 mOsm CHO solution was completed in 90 min (24). In the current study, none of the patients suffered from any complications due to the regurgitation or aspiration of gastric contents.
It is demonstrated that a shortened fasting period with CHO-rich enteral fluid supplement reduces preoperative thirst, hunger, and nausea related to these two unfavorable sensations (4-8, 20, 24-28). As expected, consistent with the findings of almost every study in this regard, the current study achieved similar results in terms of preoperative thirst and hunger. In the reduced fasting duration group, the rates of thirst and hunger were significantly lower than those reported for the group of classical long fasting duration. There was no statistical difference between the groups in terms of preoperative nausea; however, the significance level was observed to be 0.057.
According to most of the randomized controlled clinical studies in this regard, an intake of CHO drinks up to 2 h before surgery reduces also the early postoperative discomfort due to thirst, hunger, nausea, and vomiting (1-3, 8, 10, 22, 29, 30). On the other hand, no statistically significant difference was observed between the two groups in terms of postoperative vomiting rate. Furthermore, in the present study, it was shown that early postsurgical nausea complaint (i.e., at the 2nd and 8th postoperative hours) was significantly higher in the presurgical CHO-rich fluid intake group, compared to that of the other group.
The reduction of preoperative fasting time and oral intake of CHO solution up to 2 h before surgery provides many benefits in the postoperative period. For example, in a clinical prospective controlled study, Ozdemir et al. (31) reported that CHO-rich solutions reduced not only the severity of thirst, hunger, and postoperative nausea and vomiting but also insulin resistance and related surgical stress response. They emphasized that the normalization of the preoperative levels of blood glucose with the help of CHO drinks would ensure the safety of general anesthesia and minimize the postoperative catabolic response induced by the increased stress hormones due to operational trauma (31).
In a Cochrane review carried out by Smith et al. (10), the shortened duration of hospital stay in patients undergoing CHO treatment before elective surgery was compared to that of patients with placebo or fasting since midnight. Smith et al. concluded that the preoperative consumption of high CHO drinks would improve postoperative recovery. Perrone et al. (32) in a study with a very large sample size reported the successful reducing effect of presurgical supplementation with combined CHO-whey protein solutions on postoperative acute phase response and insulin resistance.
In another study, Yildiz et al. (33) claimed that anxiety and depression rates were lower in patients undergoing an oral replacement of CHO-rich fluids before elective cholecystectomy. In addition, the rate of surgery-related fatigue was higher in patients fasting 8 h before the surgery (33). The possible reasons for reduced postoperative weakness and anxiety rates in the presurgical CHO group were a decrease in complaints, such as nausea, vomiting, thirst, and hunger, and an increase in patient comfort.
Almost every study in this regard supports the reduction of the preoperative fasting period which is an old and pointless clinical routine. The best choice to shorten the fasting period seems to be the peroral consumption of CHO-rich clear fluids up to 2 h before surgery. It was concluded that the oral intake of drinking water with 12.5% dextrose up to 2 h before surgery improves the comfort of patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy by reducing preoperative hunger and thirst. However, in contrast to the results of previous studies, the rates of nausea at the 2nd and 8th postsurgical hours were higher in patients receiving preoperative CHO-rich solution in comparison to those reported for the subjects in the other group. The controversial results of the present trial should be further discussed; therefore, the authors are planning for another similar study with a larger sample size to confirm the results of the current study. Nevertheless, regarding the proven benefits of reducing the fasting period with CHO solutions, it is still believed that the aforementioned preoperative protocol should be standardized in every surgery clinic. On the other hand, clinicians should also pay close attention to potential early postoperative nausea due to the preoperative intake of CHO-rich solutions.
Authors' Contribution: Concept: MAG; Design: MAG and MTK; Supervision: SFY; Funding: MAG, MTK, and SFY; Materials: SFY; Data Collection and/or Processing: MAG and SFY; Analysis and/or Interpretation: MAG and MTK; Literature Review: MTK; Writing: MAG and MTK; Critical Review: MTK
Ethical Approval: This study was approved by the Ethics Committee of Bursa Yüksek İhtisas Training and Research Hospital in Turkey (Approval/RCT no.: 2011-KAEK-25 2015/24-02).
Funding/Support: The current study was financially supported by no institution.
Pimenta GP, de Aguilar-Nascimento JE. Prolonged preoperative fasting in elective surgical patients: why should we reduce it? Nutr Clin Pract. 2014;29(1):22-8. doi: 10.1177/08845336 13514277. [PubMed: 24336400].
Nygren J, Thorell A, Ljungqvist O. Preoperative oral carbohydrate therapy. Curr Opin Anaesthesiol. 2015;28(3): 364-9. doi: 10.1097/ACO.0000000000000192. [PubMed: 25827282].
Smith MD, McCall J, Plank L, Herbison GP, Soop M, Nygren J. Preoperative carbohydrate treatment for enhancing recovery after elective surgery. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014; (8):CD009161. doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD009161.pub2. [PubMed: 25121931].
Zelić M, Štimac D, Mendrila D, Tokmadžić VS, Fišić E, Uravić M, et al. Preoperative oral feeding reduces stress response after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Hepatogastroenterology. 2013; 60(127):1602-6. [PubMed: 24634929].
Nanavati AJ, Prabhakar S. Fast-track surgery: Toward comprehensive peri-operative care. Anesth Essays Res. 2014; 8(2):127-33. doi: 10.4103/0259-1162.134474. [PubMed: 25886214].
Ansari D, Gianotti L, Schröder J, Andersson R. Fast-track surgery: procedure-specific aspects and future direction. Langenbecks Arch Surg. 2013;398(1):29-37. doi: 10.1007/ s00423-012-1006-9. [PubMed: 23014834].
Lassen K, Coolsen MM, Slim K, Carli F, de Aguilar-Nascimento JE, Schäfer M, et al. Guidelines for perioperative care for pancreaticoduodenectomy: Enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS®) society recommendations. Clin Nutr. 2012; 31(6):817-30. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2012.08.011. [PubMed: 23079762].
Falconer R, Skouras C, Carter T, Greenway L, Paisley AM. Preoperative fasting: current practice and areas for improvement. Updates Surg. 2014;66(1):31-9. doi: 10.1007/ s13304-013-0242-z. [PubMed: 24346767].
Helminen H, Branders H, Ohtonen P, Saarnio J. Effect of pre-operative oral carbohydrate loading on recovery after day-case cholecystectomy: A randomised controlled trial. Eur J Anaesthesiol. 2019;36(8):605-611. doi: 10.1097/EJA.00000 00000001002. [PubMed: 31021880].
Rizvanović N, Nesek Adam V, Čaušević S, Dervišević S, Delibegović S. A randomised controlled study of preoperative oral carbohydrate loading versus fasting in patients undergoing colorectal surgery. Int J Colorectal Dis. 2019; 34(9):1551-1561. doi: 10.1007/s00384-019-03349-4. [PubMed: 31309323].
Jodłowski T, Dobosz M. Preoperative fasting- is it really necessary? Pol Przegl Chir. 2014;86(2):100-5. doi: 10.2478/ pjs-2014-0019. [PubMed: 24670343].
Finding Ways To Keep Up With Centers | Business Request
Spine surgery is crucial in helping to reduce pain in the spinal cord. The pressure on the nerves in the spine is minimized, and the backbone is made to be more stable. Where the spinal disc is damaged an operation is done to remove the damaged part. The Laser Surgical operation is crucial as it allows the tissues to heal faster.Patients who have gone through laser operation recover quickly. It is also effective in reducing blood loss during the surgery.
The backbone discs must be slit to pen for the surgeon to get into the ailing spot. A laser beam is shone over tissues that overlay the backbone vertebrae. There are small instruments that are used to decompress nerves.
Surgery is the last option to be undertaken thus care should be taken to ensure that the physician has carried out the proper diagnosis. The operation where laser is used has less pain in the body. One should talk to his physician to ascertain where laser treatment is the right thing to do for them. Surgery should come after the conventional medicine has failed to be effective.
You should consider the following things before going under the surgeon's knife. This will assist in recovery and help you to go through the treatment procedure without anxiety.
Do not withhold any concern you have about the operation. Understanding the uncontrolled issues that involve the surgery will help demystify various issues that you may be having. Ask Your doctor about the amount of time that you shall take while on the surgeon's table and the expected body reaction. Let the doctor explain how long you are expected to have recovered. This discussion will inform you about the plans to go back to work or the activities you can engage in during the recovery period. The doctor should tell you about the things that you cannot do for some time after the surgical operation.
You may be requested not to consume anything hours before and after the operation or any other instruction. You should never ignore these instructions. Organize for your transport from the hospital. Driving yourself may strain your body thus rupturing areas that have been sown by the surgeon.
You need medication to relieve pain and also speed up healing. Never the instructions on how to take the drugs. Be well organized before you leave home for theater. Cook and place the food in the fridge compartment where they will stay for long. Ensure that you perform some house chores that will save from doing them after the surgery.
Ensure that you have all the estimates before you start the operation. Do not attend a health facility which you cannot afford. Be courageous as you go for surgery. The patients who go through this surgical operation do not experience a lot of pain after the laser surgery.
Help ONZ to spread this important message by downloading the following resources and sharing them with your friends and colleagues.
People who have undergone treatment for other conditions are at increased risk for osteoporosis and fracture for a number of reasons. Refer to the following fact sheets for further information
Complete the Bone Health Risk Test and take this to your doctor or healthcare provider, ask for a bone heath assessment.
If you are over the age of 50 and you have one or more risk factors you should discuss these with your doctor and ask for an assessment of your bone health status. Lifestyle changes may be recommended and, for those at high risk, medication may be prescribed for optimal protection against fractures.
May 15, 2014 By Käri Knutson
The 2014 Teaching and Learning Symposium, a two-day event taking place May 19-20 at Union South, will focus on "Transforming Education" as this year's theme.
"Recent activities and circumstances at UW–Madison (such as the Educational Innovation effort projects, concerns for education costs, new campus leadership), have sparked awareness of new approaches in teaching and learning and substantial opportunities for positive change," says Christopher Olsen, interim vice provost for teaching and learning. "The theme of 'Transforming Education' highlights this exciting time."
The annual symposium provides an opportunity for the UW–Madison teaching and learning community to share best practices, celebrate accomplishments and discuss new learning and teaching practices and theories in a forum dedicated to enriching the student learning experience.
"The symposium offers a wonderful mix of fresh ideas, practical strategies and a collegial network," Olsen says. "Each attendee will find innovative opportunities to enhance their educational talents, from subtle shifts in how one considers the role of students in a classroom, to complete changes in pedagogies and collaborative partnerships in teaching."
Richard J. Davidson, the William James and Vilas Professor of Psychology and Psychiatry and director of the Waisman Brain Imaging Lab. His talk, "Well-Being is a Skill," will consider scientific evidence that suggests we can change our brains by transforming our minds and cultivate habits of mind that will improve well-being.
Greg Downey, an Evjue-Bascom Professor in both the School of Journalism and Mass Communication and the School of Library and Information Studies, and incoming associate dean for social sciences in the College of Letters & Science. "A Brief History of Innovation in Higher Education," will draw on Downey's research into technology and society to set the current debates over higher education innovation in historical context.
Gloria Ladson-Billings, the Kellner Family Chair of Urban Education in the Department of Curriculum and Instruction and faculty affiliate in the departments of Educational Policy Studies and Afro American Studies. Her presentation, "Getting Serious About Education: Preparing to Teach New Century Students," will provide information about incorporating youth culture and new technologies into classrooms as a way to ensure that all students benefit from classroom instruction.
