These data suggest that AHSCT is superior to immunosuppression for patients with highly active MS. The conditioning regimen that they used to knock back the immune system in patients before performing the stem cell transplant was also fairly intense, compared to the HALT-MS trial and the Northwestern University trial that MSDF reported on earlier in 2015.
The major strength of this study was that it was randomized and controlled. But the sample size was small and shrunken further by patient dropout. Additionally, the clinical outcomes were somewhat lackluster compared to other trials in AHSCT, particularly compared to the striking reduction in EDSS among patients enrolled in the Northwestern University trial. In a commentary accompanying the article in Neurology, Paolo A. Muraro, M.D., Ph.D., of Imperial College London defended the EDSS results by writing that the study was “clearly underpowered for detecting such differences” (Muraro, 2015).
Muraro also noted that MTX was a bit of an unusual choice for a control treatment because it “would not be a contemporary choice as comparator treatment, having lost traction because of its cardiac toxicity and risk of lymphoma.” But MTX was also the most appropriate choice due to its known efficacy in preventing the formation of new T2-weighted lesions, the study’s primary outcome measure.
Measuring the self through numbers: An ethnographical study of technology-based quantifications of the body : Bio-Governance : Universität Hamburg
This page:UHH > Bio-Governance > Projects > Measuring the self through numbers: An ethnographical study of technology-based quantifications of the body
Measuring the self through numbers: An ethnographical study of technology-based quantifications of the body
The research project explores how people make use of technical equipment and algorithms to quantify their bodies. Smartphone apps and other gadgets increasingly provide users with health-related data in their everyday life. Data on, for example, the heart and lung functions, the quality of sleep, the skin resistance as well as numerical representations of mental dispositions allow users to permanently monitor their bodies. Practices of tracking body data are embedded in social frameworks such as emerging online networks in which people exchange experiences and get advice on how to analyze their collected data. These practices enable people to gain objectified self-knowledge and to optimize their bodies based on such knowledge.
Similar practices of constructing bodily realities through (reading) numbers also occur in medical contexts. The self-referring everyday activity of a diabetic, for example, is generally accompanied by technology-based body monitoring. These demands are met by a growing market offering of a range of new technological solutions.
The project's main question is how these technologically mediated practices of permanent body-tracking and self-care inform (and transform) images of the body and the self and how these images , in turn, are negotiated in so-called "bio-social communities" (Rabinow) online. The ethnographic study builds on both current STS research on biomedicine and the Foucauldian framework of body, power and subjectivation. It draws on data from ethnographic fieldwork.
Many questions — and myths — surround the topic of weight loss. We all know that exercising is a good way to lose weight, but which exercises are most effective for our body and lifestyle? How much weight should we lose? What about the nutritional aspects of weight loss? What are the best types of foods for us and the right amounts to eat, and should we take medication to help us along? Which diets really work?
A healthy and effective weight loss programme is best conducted under medical and dietary supervision. This is why our clinic also has a qualified nutritionist in-house to design a diet plan that suits your lifestyle and preferences, and oversee your progress as well. The result is a customised weight loss plan and personalised nutrition counselling dedicated to your needs.
All our slimming programmes can also be paired with fat reduction treatments like CoolSculpting® and skin tightening programmes to contour and firm up the body.
The doctor will work closely with the nutritionist to ensure that the programme works well and to help you stay on track with the plan. He may also prescribe food and drug administration authority-approved weight loss medications and nutritional supplements to aid you in your weight loss, and fat reduction therapies like CoolSculpting® or body firming treatments to further contour your physique.
During your consultation, the nutritionist will measure and analyse your key body statistics to determine your optimal weight and craft a nutrition strategy to help you achieve your goals. She will provide insights on dieting, healthy eating, exercising, and lifestyles, as well as discuss common misconceptions on dieting and nutrition.
If meal replacement is part of your weight loss solution, the nutritionist may prescribe Optifast, a meal replacement product by Nestlé, during your slimming consultations. Optifast is a meal replacement product dedicated to clinic-use, and which needs be consumed under the guidance of a qualified nutritionist or doctor. It is a clinically-proven meal replacement product to help overweight patients lose excess weight, improve health, and lower weight-related health risks.
Eating healthily and exercising regularly are the basics of an effective weight loss strategy. But weight loss is a mental exercise as much as a physical one, and we need all the help we can get to keep the weight down. Prescription weight loss drugs can be used in tandem with dieting and exercise strategies but it has to be taken under the watchful eye of a doctor.
When combined with a healthy diet, exercise, and behaviour modification, weight management medication can set you up on a steady start to weight loss.
Polycystic Ovary Disease - Shri Maulivishwa Ayurveda Research Center
Category: Polycystic Ovary Disease
PCOS Diet : Must Follow Dos and Don'ts For Superfast Recovery!
Since PCOS is related to insulin resistance, the PCOS diet has to be properly planned. It should meet the nutritional needs of the body, should maintain correct weight and insulin levels.
Polycystic Ovary Syndrome or PCOD is a very common problem today. Every 1 in 10 Indian woman suffers from PCOD. However, many women still don't know PCOD problem symptoms
पीसीओडी – लक्षणे आणि घरगुती आयुर्वेदिक उपचार
पीसीओडी, त्याची कारणे, लक्षणे व परिणाम समूळ नष्ट करण्यासाठी विविध प्रकारचे आयुर्वेदिक उपचार आहेत. घरघुती उपचार इथे जाणून घ्या.
स्त्रीच्या आयुष्यातील अत्यंत आनंदाचा क्षण म्हणजे आई होणं. मातृत्वाच्या अनुभवाला मुकणे हा स्त्रीच्या दृष्टीने अतिशय दु:खद अनुभव ठरतो.
प्रत्येक मुलीच्या आयुष्यात मासिक पाळीची सुरवात ही एक शारीरिकदृष्ट्या व तितकीच भावनिकदृष्ट्याही महत्वाची अशी घटना आहे. गर्भधारणेसाठी तयार झालेले गर्भाशयाचे अस्तर व बीजांडकोषामधील फलित न झालेले स्त्रीबीज रक्ताबरोबर शरीराबाहेर टाकले जाण्याची क्रिया म्हणजे मासिक पाळी.
आज देशातील १० पैकी एका स्त्री ला हा आजार आहे. पीसीओडी विषयी जाणून घ्या तज्ञांकडून.
Ayurvdedic treatment for PCOS can be very effective but before getting to that let us just get a glimpse of what Ayurveda says about PCOS. Ayurvedic perspective of PCOS: In Ayurveda, the balance state of doshas is mainly responsible for health and any derangement to this will lead to disease. This dosha-vaishamya is directly connected to symptoms […]
Erika underwent IVF twice but she found it difficult to get pregnant as she was suffering from PCOS and had chronic anovulation problem. Due to anovulation, endometrium was also thin. With hormonal support she got ovulation and IVF was done. However, the quality of eggs was suspicious and results were not fruitful. Many patients like […]
A PCOS diet has a crucial role in the management of PCOS, not only for weight loss and maintenance, but also to regulate insulin levels. Finding the right diet to tackle the symptoms of PCOS is a complex process and highly individual. As insulin resistance is usually the underlying problem, however, an eating plan for […]
The Times of India article – Ayurvedic treatment for PCOS and Infertility
Ayurvedic treatment for PCOS and Infertility When Shivani came to SMV Ayurveda, she was frustrated due to Poly Cystic Ovarian Disease (PCOS) and her failure to get pregnant after many treatments. Shivani suffered from PCOS from her teenage years.Following treatment, she had regular menstrual cycle, even if her ultra-sonography reports were pointing at PCOS. But […]
› Half over 80's fall at least once a year
A new publication from The Kings Fund, 'Exploring the system-wide costs of falls in older people in Torbay' suggests that one in three people aged over 65, and half of those aged over 80, fall at least once a year. Falls cost the NHS more than £2 billion per year. With the number of people aged 65 and over predicted to increase by 2 million by 2021, these costs are set to rise further.
One way to help design better services with more integrated treatment and rehabilitation for falls patients is to look more closely at where the costs of treating patients are incurred across health, community and social care services. The paper uses Torbay's unique patient-level linked data set to explore the NHS and social care costs of the care pathway for older people in the 12 months before and after being admitted to hospital as a result of a fall.
The key findings were that, on average, the cost of hospital, community and social care cost services for each patient who fell were almost four times as much in the 12 months after admission for a fall as the costs of the admission itself.
Comparing the 12 months before and after the fall, the most dramatic increase was in community care costs (160 per cent), compared to a 37 per cent increase in social care costs and a 35 per cent increase in acute hospital care costs.
While falls patients in this study accounted for slightly more than 1 per cent of Torbay's over-65 population, in the 12 months that followed a fall, spending on their care accounted for 4 per cent of the whole annual inpatient acute hospital spending, and 4 per cent of the whole local adult social care budget. There was evidence of significant under-coding of co-morbidities for falls patients, particularly for dementia.
The paper suggest that the majority of the costs of caring for patients after a fall in Torbay were outside the acute hospital setting. These findings should encourage commissioners to consider the system-wide costs of providing integrated services for falls patients.
If cost data patterns are to be helpful in identifying and targeting patients for preventive falls services we need to tackle the major barrier of under-coding of co-morbidities in falls patients.
Critical Care Simulation - Research and Education - Critical Care - School of Medicine - Stanford Medicine
Fellows can use research time to develop a scholarly concentration in simulation activities by participating as an instructor in existing programs and potentially developing their own curricula. Fellows are welcome in simulation instructor courses, debriefing workshops as well other medical education programs throughout the medical school. Current developed curricula within the Anesthesia department and critical care division include: Code team training Unannounced in situ mock codes at the VA hospital Unannounced in situ sepsis and hemorrhage crises at the VA hospital Anesthesia Crisis Resource Management for anesthesia residents Twice monthly ICU crisis management simulations at the VA High risk maternal-fetal simulation Monthly code team training at the VA Additional information can be found at: http://cisl.stanford.edu/ You are Here:
Best Medical Groups in Illinois, Elmhurst, USA
Medical Groups of Doctors and Health care specialists in Elmhurst IL
HealthCare4PPL is your most comprehensive directory of medical groups of the best physicians, health care providers and long-term care facilities in Elmhurst IL. HealthCare4PPL provides detailed information including practice locations, list of physicians, doctors and health care providers and services of 70 well-known medical groups.
List of Medical Group in Elmhurst IL
Major taxonomies: Dietitian, Registered Nutrition, Renal
Associated Pathology Consultants-elmhurst Sc
Major taxonomies: Adult Health Nurse Practitioner Rehabilitation Practitioner Acute Care Physical Medicine & Rehabilitation Family
2021 ICD-10-CM Code B34.9 - Viral infection, unspecified
2021 ICD-10-CM Code B34.9
Short Description: Viral infection, unspecified
Long Description: Viral infection, unspecified
B34.9 is a billable diagnosis code used to specify a medical diagnosis of viral infection, unspecified. The code B34.9 is valid during the fiscal year 2021 from October 01, 2020 through September 30, 2021 for the submission of HIPAA-covered transactions.
The ICD-10-CM code B34.9 might also be used to specify conditions or terms like acute infectious tubulointerstitial nephritis, acute infective otitis externa, acute pyelonephritis, acute tubulointerstitial nephritis, acute viral disease , acute viral otitis externa, etc.
Unspecified diagnosis codes like B34.9 are acceptable when clinical information is unknown or not available about a particular condition. Although a more specific code is preferable, unspecified codes should be used when such codes most accurately reflect what is known about a patient's condition. Specific diagnosis codes should not be used if not supported by the patient's medical record.
The Tabular List of Diseases and Injuries is a list of ICD-10 codes, organized "head to toe" into chapters and sections with coding notes and guidance for inclusions, exclusions, descriptions and more. The following references are applicable to the code B34.9:
The Index to Diseases and Injuries is an alphabetical listing of medical terms, with each term mapped to one or more ICD-10 code(s). The following references for the code B34.9 are found in the index:
- viral disease NEC - See Also: category M01; - B34.9
- nonarthropod-borne NOS - B34.9
- unspecified nature or site - B34.9
- viral disease NEC - B34.9
- virus - B34.9
- Viremia - B34.9
Alanine aminotransferase level normal
Labyrinthitis of bilateral inner ears
Normal ALT with persistent viremia by PCR
Recurrent viral infection
Sepsis caused by virus
Viral labyrinthitis of bilateral inner ears
VIRUS DISEASES-. a general term for diseases caused by viruses.
CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM VIRAL DISEASES-. viral infections of the brain spinal cord meninges or perimeningeal spaces.
The ICD-10 code B34.9 is grouped in the following groups for version MS-DRG V38.0 What are Diagnostic Related Groups?
Convert B34.9 to ICD-9 Code
The General Equivalency Mapping (GEM) crosswalk indicates an approximate mapping between the ICD-10 code B34.9 its ICD-9 equivalent. The approximate mapping means there is not an exact match between the ICD-10 code and the ICD-9 code and the mapped code is not a precise representation of the original code.
Frequent mutations of chromatin remodeling genes discovered in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder -- ScienceDaily
Frequent mutations of chromatin remodeling genes discovered in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder
New research provides a valuable genetic basis for future studies on transitional cell carcinoma, suggesting that aberration of chromatin regulation might be one of the features of bladder cancer.
BGI, the world's largest genomics organization, Peking University Shenzhen Hospital and Shenzhen Second People's Hospital, announced on August 7 that the study on frequent mutations of chromatin remodeling genes in transitional cell carcinoma (TCC) of the bladder was published online in Nature Genetics. This study provides a valuable genetic basis for future studies on TCC, suggesting that aberration of chromatin regulation might be one of the features of bladder cancer.
Bladder cancer is the ninth most common type of cancer worldwide, which affects three times as many men as women. Almost all bladder cancers originate in the urothelium, so they are also known as one of the most common tumors of the genitourinary tract. Each year, about 360,000 new cases of bladder cancer are expected, and about 150,000 people will die of this disease in the world. In North America, South America, Europe, and Asia, TCC is the most common type of bladder cancer diagnosed, accounting for 90% of all bladder malignancies in those regions.
"Considering the high risks of TCC and the lack of comprehensive analysis, we and our partners initiated this project to identify other previously unidentified genes associated with the bladder cancer." said Professor Zhiming Cai, President of Shenzhen Second People's Hospital and the former President of Peking University Shenzhen Hospital. "I hope our unexpected discoveries in this study can provide more important insights into potential diagnoses and the therapeutic applications." he added.
In this study, the exomes of nine patients with TCC were sequenced with BGI's exome sequencing platform. Then, all the somatically mutated genes were screened in a prevalence set of 88 additional patients with TCC at different tumor stages and grades. "After the detections and statistical analysis, we discovered 49 new significantly mutated genes associated with TCC, and these genes are previously unknown to be mutated in TCC." said Professor Yaoting Gui,the co-leading author of the study and Vice-Director of the Institute of Urology at Peking University Shenzhen Hospital, "Another interesting finding is that eight genes among them are associated with chromatin remodeling, which could be related with frequent mutations in the majority of TCCs."
"We identified the genetic aberrations of the chromatin remodeling genes in 59% of the 97 individuals with TCC, and discovered one gene, UTX, could be altered substantially more frequently in tumors with low stages and grades." said Guangwu Guo, one of the co-leading authors of the study and PI of this project at BGI. "This study indicates UTX may pose a potential role in the classification and diagnosis of bladder cancer."
As we all know, aberrations of the chromatin remodeling genes may directly lead to the misregulation of multiple downstream effector genes, consequently promoting the tumor genesis process. "In our study, the newly discovered genetic mutations in the chromatin remodeling genes, except for UTX, are previous unknown in the primary tumors of TCC." said professor Cai. "Our results demonstrate that the disruption of the chromatin remodeling machinery may be one of the main mechanisms that lead to TCC."
Professor Jun Wang, Executive Director of BGI, said, "This study provides further understanding of bladder cancer and other human cancers through the comprehensive analysis of genetic alterations in TCC. It also implicates the necessity to enhance the epigenomics research in the field of cancer studies in the future. "
Yaoting Gui, Guangwu Guo, Yi Huang, Xueda Hu, Aifa Tang, Shengjie Gao, Renhua Wu, Chao Chen, Xianxin Li, Liang Zhou, Minghui He, Zesong Li, Xiaojuan Sun, Wenlong Jia, Jinnong Chen, Shangming Yang, Fangjian Zhou, Xiaokun Zhao, Shengqing Wan, Rui Ye, Chaozhao Liang, Zhisheng Liu, Peide Huang, Chunxiao Liu, Hui Jiang, Yong Wang, Hancheng Zheng, Liang Sun, Xingwang Liu, Zhimao Jiang, Dafei Feng, Jing Chen, Song Wu, Jing Zou, Zhongfu Zhang, Ruilin Yang, Jun Zhao, Congjie Xu, Weihua Yin, Zhichen Guan, Jiongxian Ye, Hong Zhang, Jingxiang Li, Karsten Kristiansen, Michael L Nickerson, Dan Theodorescu, Yingrui Li, Xiuqing Zhang, Songgang Li, Jian Wang, Huanming Yang, Jun Wang, Zhiming Cai. Frequent mutations of chromatin remodeling genes in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. Nature Genetics, 2011; DOI: 10.1038/ng.907
Beijing Genomics Institute. "Frequent mutations of chromatin remodeling genes discovered in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder." ScienceDaily. ScienceDaily, 7 August 2011. <www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110807143901.htm>.
Beijing Genomics Institute. (2011, August 7). Frequent mutations of chromatin remodeling genes discovered in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder. ScienceDaily. Retrieved April 29, 2017 from www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110807143901.htm
Beijing Genomics Institute. "Frequent mutations of chromatin remodeling genes discovered in transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder." ScienceDaily. www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2011/08/110807143901.htm (accessed April 29, 2017).
Apr. 13, 2017 — For the first time, researchers have unveiled the three-dimensional structure of an overlapping dinucleosome, a newly discovered chromatin structural unit. This may explain how nucleosome ... read more Research Could Lead to New Cancer Assay, Aid Both Dogs and Humans
June 5, 2014 — Veterinary researchers have identified a unique group of proteins that indicate the presence of transitional cell carcinoma -- the most common cause of bladder cancer -- and may lead to a new assay ... read more Source of Most Cases of Invasive Bladder Cancer Identified
Apr. 20, 2014 — A single type of cell in the lining of the bladder is responsible for most cases of invasive bladder cancer, according to researchers. The study, conducted in mice, is the first to pinpoint the ... read more Classification System for Bladder Cancer Prognosis
Jan. 29, 2014 — Researchers have developed a classification system to determine the prognosis for bladder cancer. It is hoped that this will prove useful for future bladder cancer research and drug ... read more Strange & Offbeat
Immunotherapy for kids: An option for childhood liver cancer? - Boston Children's Answers
Posted on May 3, 2022 by Jessica Cerretani | Research
Tags: cancer, immunotherapy, liver disease
You may have seen ads for immunotherapy drugs, or even know someone whose cancer has been treated with them. These medications, which use a patient's own immune system to help fight cancer, are increasingly popular for treating solid tumors in adults. However, immunotherapy has been less successful in treating cancer in kids.
The reason for that is that tumors in children differ from those in adults, explains Dr. Allison O'Neill, director of the Liver Tumor Center at the Dana-Farber/Boston Children's Cancer and Blood Disorders Center. "Most solid tumors in kids are less complex than those in adults," she says. "This provides doctors with fewer targets for the immune system to recognize, which renders immunotherapy drugs less effective in childhood cancers."
But hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) could change that. This rare and aggressive form of childhood liver cancer shares enough similarities with its adult counterpart to make it a good disease for which to study immunotherapy treatments, explains Dr. O'Neill.
When your child has a cold, their immune system rallies to fight it: Immune cells called T cells recognize and destroy viruses, bacteria, and other foreign substances they perceive as harmful. The immune system tries to fight cancer, too. This can be tricky, however. Some cancer cells are able to evade immune cells or even stop them from working properly.
Immunotherapy attempts to help the immune system work better to identify and kill cancer cells. Different immunotherapy drugs accomplish this in different ways. Some block certain checkpoints in the immune system, allowing the immune cells to respond to cancer more strongly. Others boost the ability of T cells to fight cancer. And still others enhance the immune system through various mechanisms.
The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has approved immunotherapy drugs to treat a number of adult cancers. Now, Dr. O'Neill hopes that two ongoing studies will open doors for the use of immunotherapy in childhood liver cancer.
The first, a trial of pediatric patients with HCC, aims to learn more about how the drug pembrolizumab — already FDA approved in adults — might allow immune cells to better recognize liver tumors in pediatric patients. This study will also allow an in-depth exploration of the immune environment of pediatric HCC tumors and an analysis of how circulating and tumor-associated immune cells change in response to treatment with this drug. This trial is open and enrolling eligible patients ages 1 to 30.
The second study, conducted with Eureka Therapeutics, will seek to study the safety of an engineered T cell receptor capable of recognizing a protein (called alfa-fetoprotein) produced by both HCC and hepatoblastoma tumors. This novel T cell therapy is currently being studied in adults and is now being studied for the first time in pediatric patients. This trial is open and currently enrolling eligible patients 12 years old and up, but ultimately will enroll children ages 1 to 21.
"These studies will offer significant insight into the immune landscape of these difficult-to-treat tumors," says Dr. O'Neill. "They will undoubtedly help us learn more about the role of immunotherapy in pediatric liver cancer."
To learn more, contact the Liver Tumor Center.
A surprising diagnosis leads to treatment for Liam's liver cancer
For Liam Dickerson, what started as a simple sick day turned into a journey he never could have expected. In 2018, ...
Coping with hepatoblastoma: It didn't take magic for John's family to find answers
John Ogden considers himself a bit of a wizard. When his dad, Nick, says he wishes he had a boat, ...
In the spring of 2017, Meghan Tompkins and her parents, Danni and Michael, arrived at the Dana Farber/Boston Children's ...
Tumors have figured out various ways to prevent the immune system from attacking them. Medicine, for its part, has fought ...
