Prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission within the continuum of maternal, newborn, and child health services. - PubMed - NCBI
Format: AbstractFormatSummarySummary (text)AbstractAbstract (text)MEDLINEXMLPMID ListApplySend toChoose DestinationFileClipboardCollectionsE-mailOrderMy BibliographyCitation managerFormatSummary (text)Abstract (text)MEDLINEXMLPMID ListCSVCreate File1 selected item: 23872611FormatSummarySummary (text)AbstractAbstract (text)MEDLINEXMLPMID ListMeSH and Other DataE-mailSubjectAdditional textE-mailDidn't get the message? Find out why...Add to ClipboardAdd to CollectionsOrder articlesAdd to My BibliographyGenerate a file for use with external citation management software.Create File
See comment in PubMed Commons belowCurr Opin HIV AIDS. 2013 Sep;8(5):498-503. doi: 10.1097/COH.0b013e3283637f7a.Prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission within the continuum of maternal, newborn, and child health services.Chi BH1, Bolton-Moore C, Holmes CB.Author information1Centre for Infectious Disease Research in Zambia (CIDRZ), Lusaka, Zambia. bchi@cidrz.orgAbstractPURPOSE OF REVIEW: To reach virtual elimination of pediatric HIV, programs for the prevention of mother-to-child HIV transmission (PMTCT) must expand coverage and achieve long-term retention of mothers and infants. Although PMTCT have been traditionally aligned with maternal, newborn, and child health (MNCH) services, novel approaches are needed to address the increasing demands of evolving global PMTCT policies.RECENT FINDINGS: PMTCT-MNCH integration has improved the uptake and timely initiation of antiretroviral therapy (ART) among treatment-eligible pregnant women in public health settings. Postpartum engagement of HIV-infected mothers and HIV-exposed infants has been insufficient, although alignment of visits to the childhood immunization schedule and establishment of integrated mother-infant clinics may increase retention. Evidence also suggests that the integration of maternal HIV testing into childhood immunization clinics can significantly increase the identification of at-risk HIV-exposed infants previously missed by traditional PMTCT models.SUMMARY: Targeted service integration models can improve PMTCT uptake. However, as global PMTCT policy shifts to universal provision of maternal ART during pregnancy (i.e., Option B/B+), these findings must be reexamined in the context of increased service demand and systems burden. Intensive evaluation is needed to ensure quality clinical care is maintained both for PMTCT and for underpinning MNCH services.PMID: 23872611 PMCID: PMC4049298 DOI: 10.1097/COH.0b013e3283637f7a [Indexed for MEDLINE] Free PMC ArticleSharePublication type, MeSH terms, Substance, Grant supportPublication typeReviewMeSH termsAnti-Retroviral Agents/therapeutic useChild Health Services/methodsChild Health Services/organization & administrationFemaleHIV Infections/prevention & control*HIV Infections/transmission*HumansInfant, NewbornInfectious Disease Transmission, Vertical/prevention & control*Postnatal Care/methodsPostnatal Care/organization & administrationPregnancyPrenatal Care/methodsPrenatal Care/organization & administrationSubstanceAnti-Retroviral AgentsGrant supportR01 HD075131/HD/NICHD NIH HHS/United StatesLinkOut - more resourcesFull Text SourcesLippincott Williams & WilkinsEurope PubMed Central - Author ManuscriptOvid Technologies, Inc.PubMed Central - Author ManuscriptPubMed Central Canada - Author ManuscriptMedicalClinicalTrials.govHIV - Genetic AllianceHIV InSiteHIV/AIDS - MedlinePlus Health InformationHIV/AIDS in Women - MedlinePlus Health InformationPubMed Commons home
How to write an abstract for a project. Coursework Writing Service
Writing a conference abstract: tips for success project •abstracts must include abstract writing to review final draft for errors. How to write abstract for project - 28 images - indiana construction roundtable one essays an research paper by submitting assignment, writing a structured abstract. Writing an abstract research and concludes with a statement of the significance of the research project it is imperative that you write a quality abstract in. Need to know how to write a science fair abstract for your project check out these three easy steps to write one, including a free printable.
Summarize the background and focus a proposal identifies a reason for the project, so the abstract also needs to establish how this project fulfills a need. How to write an abstract for the undergraduate research, scholarship and creative activities conference. How to write an abstract & make a great poster hamed abbaszadegan, md, mba your research/project, review examples • program research department. An abstract is a tightly written summary of a completed research paper or project abstracts help readers to focus on the most important points of a paper.
The following abstracts are examples of design projects that meng students have completed in previous years. Learn how to write for science fair abstract projects this will be a great asset for you because in those limited words – approximately 250 words in all – you. How to write an abstract for the undergraduate research, scholarship and creative activities of a research project abstracts precede papers in research.
How to write an abstract if you need to write an abstract for an academic or scientific paper or part of a work project before you start writing. Abstract is a concise summary that defines the core of your work following mentioned is a guide on how to start writing an abstract for project effectively. Guide to writing an abstract for a science fair project includes a list of key elements for the abstract and examples.
How to make steam power generator - a cool science project with easy way - duration: 3:36 sdik rof - creativity 4,641,039 views. How to write an abstract philip koopman, carnegie mellon university october, 1997 abstract because on-line search databases typically contain only abstracts, it is. How to write a scientific abstract in i am in middle and i need steps to write an abstract for my science fair projectmy science teacher told me to write. How to write an abstract what is an abstract an abstract is a concise statement of the major elements of your research project, and the reader's.
Health and Safety Management courses Kerala | Emagister
Health and Safety Management Kerala
Health and Safety Management courses in Kerala
India 44 England 3 Wales 3 France 1 Bahrain 1 Hong Kong 1 Italy 1 Malaysia 1 Netherlands 1 South Africa 1 Thailand 1 United Arab Emirates 1
Town/City Cochin 4 Kochi 2
...Suitable for: Managers, Supervisors, Freshers, Engineers Managers, Supervisors, Freshers, Engineers Managing safely covers... 1. Introducing Managing safely... Learn about: Construction Safety, Occupation Health, Workplace Safety... More
...candidates must achieve a minimum pass standard in all the examinations and assessment. Program Length: Participants can complete this certificate within... Learn about: Safety Management, Health and Safety Management, Occupational Safety... More
...Fire Safety 7. Chemical and Biological Health Hazards and Risk Control 8. Physical and Psychological Health Hazards and Risk Control IGC3: International... Learn about: Safety Management, Fire Safety, First Aid... More
...4. The basic demands for the corridor and right of way sustainment. 5. Road maps for designation and security of base opening. 6. Understanding of... Learn about: Workplace Safety, Occupational Safety, Office Safety... More
...to work with the best of their willingness. MEDICAL training program includes first aid, AED, the blood borne pathogens, Oxygen Therapy and Occupational... Learn about: Health and Safety Management, First Aid, Occupational Safety... More
...Safety and Health Administration review and outlines the review system. 3. Determine the law and duties of workers and employers ender the Occupational... Learn about: Health and Safety Management, Workplace Safety... More
Syncorp Health: Site Feasibility in Bangalore
Syncorp Health has built Strong clinical trial sites network. Our team ensures capabilities are discussed and documented as per the need of the trial during conduting feasibility and we have team & experience to support local and global trials across India.
We perform following (but not limited to)
Site Laboratory Assessments
Site Pharmacy Assessments
Principal Investigator selection
We offer a comprehensive portfolio of services which can be tailored to meet the customer needs
Clinical Operations Therapeutic Area of Experience Site Feasibility
Site Selection Study Startup Patient Recruitment
Site Services Project Management Site Monitoring
Data Management Biostatistics & Programming Medical Writing
Regulatory Services Safety Services Quality
Consulting Services Vendor Management Technology
Our Key Milestone
Syncorp Health announces a significant milestone on receiving approval on 20-07-2020,as a Start-up recognized by the Department of Industrial Policy and Promotion, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India.
Syncorp Health announces significant milestone - strategic tie up with Research Mentor South Korea to expand Clinical Research Services.
Syncorp Health worked with American Megatrends India (P) Ltd to clear the 510K substantial equivalence review by USFDA for BT4 (K182401).
Syncorp Health successfully supported the Sponsor in weight Management & Wound Healing product CT & obtained approvals from MFDS, South Korea.
Syncorp Health moved to a dedicated world class CRO facility at Bangalore.
In FY 18-20, Syncorp Health successfully conducted 30+ Medical Devices Clinical Validations.
In FY 18-20, Syncorp Health successfully conducted 20+ Nutraceutical and Ayurvedic Clinical Trials.
Medical Device Clients
Ayurvedic & Nutraceuticals Clients
Find out more about Syncorp
Follow Syncorp on LinkedIn to see our company news, our job opportunities and connect with our employees.
Syncorp Health Pvt Ltd
2nd Main Rd, Building # 06, 3rd floor Sarvobhogam Nagar, Arekere, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560076 (Opposite to British Biologicals)
Just horse racing statistics at Moonee Valley races?
Home/Public/Analysis/Just horse racing statistics at Moonee Valley races?
2019-10-13T07:59:34+11:00
This analysis is a focus on just horse racing statistics and excludes any other external factors and variables.
Focusing on just horse racing statistics can have its advantages as it can provide clarity and confidence in the historical horse racing data you are working with. Furthermore, it can assist you whilst completing your horse racing form analysis of future races. This analysis explores some essential statistics across Moonee Valley races using horse racing sectional timing data supplied from Vince Accardi at dailysectionals.com.au.
Now, focusing on just horse racing statistics for Moonee Valley races, let's dive into it.
Looking to enhance your analysis skillset? Check out the following articles
THIS ANALYSIS LEVEL IS
What we used to complete this analysis:
Sectional Timing Data: dailysectionals.com.au
Racing Analytics Professional Database: racinganalyticspro.com.au
Explore key statistics for Moonee Valley Races
Last 800, 600, 400 and 200-meter positions.
Sprint, Middle and Distance Races.
A FOCUS ON JUST HORSE RACING
POSITION IN RUNS ANALYSIS
* Searching FREE horse racing data files and virtual data tables?. Register for free at www.statfreaks.com.au/register to download!
#01 – FOCUS ON JUST HORSE RACING STATISTICS
With the focus on just horse racing at Moonee Valley races, let's quickly cover over what horse racing data we imported and which horse racing report we executed from RAPRO.
Daily Ranking – Daily Sectionals Excel files
Sectional Review – Daily Sectionals Excel files
DAS – Statistical Track Analysis – RAPRO report we ran to retrieve the Moonee Valley races statistics
Once we obtained all the data files, we placed them in the RAPRO folder on the desktop. From there we opened the RAPRO software, clicked the import button and waited a few seconds for the software to convert and import each data file into the back end SQL database. RAPRO came with some data status reports which allowed us to view all the Moonee Valley races loaded into the system.
RAPRO did have various other reports such as advanced horse search, historical sectional and ranking analysis and top performance reports. For this analysis, we utilised the "Statistical Track Analysis" report only. What we also liked about RAPRO was the ability to connect directly into the back end SQL database and execute custom queries and browse the data tables.
#02 – POSITION IN RUNS ANALYSIS
Continuing our journey of focusing on just horse racing statistics on Monee Valley races we began looking at the position-in-run at each key point being the 800, 600, 400 and 200-meter points.
800 Meter Point
The statistics at the 800-meter point for Moonee Valley races return some exciting results.
Leading in sprint races has the most advantages across sprint and middle distances races.
In staying races, leading is not as advantages compared to sprint and middle distance races
A horse leading in a sprint race chance is at 50% of finishing top 3.
Leading in a middle distance race finished 55% of the time in the top 3
600 Meter Point
The statistics at the 600-meter point for Moonee Valley races return the following results.
In spring races, the horses in positions 2,3 and 4 have higher strike rates to finish in the top 3 than the leader.
This is also valid for middle distance races
For staying races, the lead horse at the 600 has the highest strike rate to finish in the Top 3
The highest strike rate to finish in the Top 3 is 44%, for horses that are leading in staying type races.
400 Meter Point
The statistics at the 400-meter point when focusing on just horse racing statistics at Moonee Valley races returns the following key figures.
64% of the time the leader will finish in the top 3 at the 400-meter point.
All race distances have a strike rate of over 40% for leaders to finish in the top 3.
Positions 2-3 (on pace positions) are consistent and all over 38% to finish in the top 3.
200 Meter Point
The statistics at the 200-meter point for Moonee Valley races returns the following.
Both middle and staying distances races have a strike rate of over 78% to finish in the top 3.
No horse has finished top 3 when positioned 10th at the 200-meter point.
Staying race has the highest strike rate to finish in the top 3 at 79%
Sprint races have the lowest out of the 3 distances types, at 69%
#04 – CONCLUSION
Concluding our analysis on just horse racing statistics for Moonee Valley races, the data suggests that it is more difficult to run down the lead horses as the race distances increases.
How we came up with the theory?
Taking a closer look at the 400-meter point statistics, we can see that the strike rate for leading horses in staying type races is 64%. Between positions two and four, there is not much of a variance in comparison to leading horses. In a staying type race the horses are running at a slower pace when running to the finish post, and are not able to catch up to the leader as fast as they would have in the middle or sprint distance race types at Moonee Valley. Running at a slower pace would require further distance to make up ground, and at Moonee Valley races the sharp bend before the straight is around the 400-meter point.
The above theory can further be supported by the figures in the middle distance range, where a similar pattern exists although not as dominant. Finally, sprint races also confirm that at Moonee Valley Races, the shorter the distance, the easier it is to make up ground and finish in the Top 3, which makes sense the faster a horse is running, the more ground it can make up in a shorter amount of distance, and time.
Laval to grant $1 million subsidy to Cité de la Santé Foundation | The Laval News
Home Breaking News Laval to grant $1 million subsidy to Cité de la Santé Foundation
Laval to grant $1 million subsidy to Cité de la Santé Foundation
The City of Laval's executive-committee has sent a recommendation to city council to vote in favour of granting a $1 million subsidy to the Cité de la Santé Foundation, which raises money for the hospital on René-Laennec Blvd., payable in installments of $200,000 annually over the next five years.
The Cité de la Santé Foundation, which raises additional funding for the hospital on René-Laennec Blvd., will be receiving $200,000 annually from the City of Laval over the next five years.
According to a statement issued on April 23 by Mayor Marc Demers' office and the city administration, the money will be used by the Cité de la Santé Foundation to help fulfill its mandate, which consists mostly of maintaining and improving services at the hospital as well as within the Centre intégré de santé et de services sociaux (CISSS) de Laval.
"The health of our citizens is one of our big priorities," said Demers. "We are delighted to participate in this collective effort by supporting the CISSS de Laval and all health professionals. In fact, we are very grateful to them for their commitment and we wish to acknowledge their courage."
Saved Stories – None: Researchers Discover New Variant of COVID-19 Virus in Columbus, Ohio | Investigations of Donald Trump and his circles - trumpinvestigations.org
Saved Stories – None: Researchers Discover New Variant of COVID-19 Virus in Columbus, Ohio
COLUMBUS, Ohio – Scientists at
have discovered a new variant of SARS-Cov-2, the virus that causes COVID-19. The new variant carries a mutation identical to the U.K. strain, but it likely arose in a virus strain already present in the United States. The researchers also report the evolution of another U.S. strain that acquired three other gene mutations not previously seen together in SARS-CoV2.
These findings are under review for publication in
as a pre-print.
The Ohio State Wexner Medical Center has been sequencing the genome of SARS-Cov-2 viruses in patients with COVID-19 since March 2020 in order to monitor the evolution of the virus. The new variant was discovered in one patient from Ohio, so researchers do not yet know the prevalence of the strain in the population.
In contrast, the evolving strain with the three new mutations has become the dominant virus in Columbus during a three week period in late December 2020 and January.
"This new Columbus strain has the same genetic backbone as earlier cases we've studied, but these three mutations represent a significant evolution," said study leader
, vice chair of the division of molecular pathology. "We know this shift didn't come from the U.K. or South African branches of the virus."
"The big question is whether these mutations will render vaccines and current therapeutic approaches less effective," said
, a co-author of the study and chief scientific officer at the Ohio State Wexner Medical Center and vice dean for research at the College of Medicine. "At this point, we have no data to believe that these mutations will have any impact on the effectiveness of vaccines now in use."
We'll be in touch every so often with health tips, patient stories, important resources and other information you need to keep you and your family healthy. Welcome to our online community here at the Ohio State Wexner Medical Center!
← NPR News Now: NPR News: 01-14-2021 1PM ET → Saved Stories – None: Third homegrown coronavirus variant found in U.S. as researchers say first emerged in Texas in MAY
Company industry pharmaceutical phd thesis - petalsofjoy.org
Appendix B. company industry pharmaceutical phd thesis History of SWOT In the 1960's and 70's, Albert Humphrey is said to have developed this strategic planning tool using data from the top companies in America at the time.A SWOT Analysis looks at the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats that are relevant to an organization in a new venture.A SWOT Analysis is a tool which allows users to look at the direction a company or. S. The research contained within was part of a larger research effort called the Supply Chain 2020 Project. The second paper I ordered was a research report on history Research Thesis On Sociology; She Got Game Classic – Atlanta, sample manufacturing engineer cover letter GA; Carnegie Mellon Phd Mechanical Engineering. With so much spending involved, most companies understand the great role and importance of marketing in …. Take your education to the next level with a PhD at UBC Pharm Sci. Our "Pharmaceutical Industry" experts can research and write a NEW, ONE-OF-A-KIND, ORIGINAL dissertation, thesis, or research proposal—JUST FOR YOU—on the precise "Pharmaceutical Industry" topic of your choice.
For this purpose, a real case study for a generic pharmaceutical company, Generic PharmaX, is considered Peter Kolchinsky, PhD The Entrepreneur's Guide to a Biotech Startup AUTHOR'S NOTE ORIGIN OF THE GUIDE In January 2000, a post-doctoral fellow in my research laboratory approached me to discuss a technology he had developed. MSE Project Topics. The term "Industry 4.0" was first introduced in 2011 by the German government, and it is in Germany that this new revolution began to take form Oct 24, 2017 · Published: Oct 24, 2017 By Seema Sharma. This dissertation treats the new product introduction process in the pharmaceutical industry from an operations perspective. Chenxin is a manufacturer in the field of medicine. and to the Ph.D. Here you can order research paper, thesis, coursework, dissertation or any other writing assignment. The company produces medicine and offers medicine to hospital or drugstore. Here you can order research paper, thesis, coursework, dissertation or any other writing assignment. More so, it is an industry that offers patients an opportunity to prevent, stabilize and have solutions to many diseases Within six months of receiving a federal resume writing services maryland long-dreamt-of academic promotion I company industry pharmaceutical phd thesis moved to Connecticut to accept a clinical research position at the largest R&D campus for the pharmaceutical company, Pfizer, Inc.
The Supply Chain 2020 Project was intended to provide company industry pharmaceutical phd thesis insight into major research questions about the future of supply popular personal essay ghostwriting websites ca chain excellence.
The social, demographic and economic context in which the pharmaceutical industry (Pharma) operates is changing dramatically, as we noted in "Pharma 2020: actonian thesis The vision", the White Paper PricewaterhouseCoopers* published in June company industry pharmaceutical phd thesis 2007 (see sidebar, Seven major trends reshaping the pharmaceutical marketplace).1All these challenges have major ramifications for the way in which ….
To the best of my knowledge, I am the sole neuropsychologist employed within Pfizer's company industry pharmaceutical phd thesis R&D Division, on any of its research campuses The objective of this thesis is to design a marketing strategy plan for Jiangxi Chenxin Pharmaceutical Company in the medicinal market.
Our skillful essay writers supply writing and company industry pharmaceutical phd thesis editing services for academic papers.
Dec 02, 2019 · The company industry pharmaceutical phd thesis main argument that the industry's lobby group, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America (PhRMA), habitually makes against drug-price regulation is that the high level of profits that high drug prices make possible in the U.S.
Proprietary Nutritionals, Inc. - Nutraceuticals World
Proprietary Nutritionals, Inc., Kearny, NJ, has received authorization from the KFDA (Korean FDA) for its Cran-Max cranberry concentrate to carry the functional claim: "Functional food ingredient that is helpful for urinary tract health." In official documents, the commissioner of the Korean Food and Drug Administration in August declared "[Cran-Max] is approved functional food ingredient according to Article 10 of the Regulation on Approval of Functional Ingredient for Health Functional Food."
Follow us Inside the O.R.Up Close with Local Surgeons
By Allison Rosbury on	 July 1, 2016 Wellness
For many of us, the thought of undergoing surgery is terrifying – so, My City Wellness "scrubbed in" to get up close with a group of talented local physicians as they performed a variety of procedures. Our sincerest thanks to doctors Culver, Dobies, Lesneski, Margni, Palavali, and Waters for their gracious cooperation in creating this special section.
PROCEDURE/SURGERY: Lumbar Sympathetic Block
CREDENTIALS: Board Certified in Anesthesiology; Board Certified in Interventional Pain Management
FACILITY: The Surgery Center, Flint
METHOD/DESCRIPTION: This procedure selectively blocks the sympathetic nerves of the leg and is useful in diagnosing and treating pain caused by Complex Regional Pain Syndrome (also known as Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy) of the lower extremity. This is a relatively unusual type of pain that can persist after trauma or surgical procedures. Lumbar Sympathetic Blocks performed under fluoroscopy ensures proper placement of the needle for each injection. The success rate is quite variable; when treatment is given early – within the first six months – the success rate is much higher.
This is a relatively uncommon condition, as Dr. Culver sees about 20 cases per year. In the course of his 25-year career in pain management, he has performed this procedure more than 1,000 times. It must be done by an interventional pain management physician who has experience in diagnosing the condition, and who has been appropriately trained in performing such procedures. Dr. Culver would like those considering this procedure to know that it is uncomfortable, as it is a deep injection. Most patients are encouraged to have sedation for the procedure, and typically, a series of several such procedures is required.
Dr. Culver also enjoys giving back to the community through charitable donations, primarily to faith-based organizations such as Forgotten Man Ministries.
PROCEDURE/SURGERY: Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (PCI)
CREDENTIALS: Michigan State University College of Human Medicine, Doctor of Medicine Degree. Board Certified in Internal Medicine – 1996; Recertified 2006; Cardiovascular Disease – 1999; Recertified 2009; Interventional Cardiology – 2002: Recertified 2012. A member of The European Society of Cardiology, Dr. Dobies will present his expertise on "Bypass versus PCI" in Italy this August.
FACILITY: Genesys Regional Medical Center; all major hospitals
METHOD/DESCRIPTION: The technology for Interventional Cardiology is still in a significant growth phase. It began in 1977 with balloon angioplasty, and has become more refined over time to include the use of bare metal stents, medications, and a bio-reabsorbable stent that absorbs into the body over time. "This stent is nice for the patient, because it's not there forever," Dr. Dobies says. "A typical implant is a foreign body that will cause inflammation. The PCI surgery is not a cure; it's a treatment, and it is the dominant technology and preferred method for treating coronary disease."
PCI replaces the need for heart bypass, which can be very hard on the body. Candidates for this surgery have symptoms of chest pain, shortness of breath, and general heart failure. With a 98-99% success rate, the most significant benefit of PCI is that it is a long-term treatment that is less invasive than surgery.
On average, this procedure takes Dr. Dobies about 45 minutes to perform, and complete recovery takes only a few weeks. Patients can typically go home after a 23-hour hospital stay, with prescriptions for aspirin and cholesterol medication. On average, a patient can return to work two days post-op.
The bio-reabsorable aspect and medications make this procedure better and safer than before, as the risk of bleeding is decreased. Patients should be aware of their symptoms when it comes to an abnormal stress test or blood test, and the chance of recurrent symptoms, heart attack and/or death is high if doctors aren't able to identify and treat it. "As we go into this next phase of medicine, we are working to create a standard approach for these procedures," Dr. Dobies adds. "It comes down to the accuracy and certainty of the patient's medical information."
PROCEDURE/SURGERY: Full Arch Dental Implant Restoration or the ALL ON FOUR
CREDENTIALS: Dr. Lesneski attended dental school at the University of Detroit Mercy, completed his anesthesia residency at Temple University, and completed his surgical residency at Gundersen Lutheran Medical Center.
FACILITY: Greater Michigan Oral Surgeons and Dental Implant Center (Flint & Saginaw)
METHOD/DESCRIPTION: When patients elect to have dental implants due to failing teeth, they normally need extractions and bone grafting, and then need to heal for 4-6 months. Then, the implants are placed and must heal for an additional four months. Dr. Lesneski's surgery allows removal of all teeth, placement of dental implants, complete bone grafting if necessary, and patients have new teeth the same day – never having to be seen without teeth.
At their offices in Flint and Saginaw, the practice offers Cone Beam CT technology, which is essentially a CT scan, but uses minimal radiation. It allows them to view a 3-D reconstruction of the patient's mouth, so they can see exactly where important anatomical structures are located, as well as where to place the implants.
Having performed this surgery hundreds of times and placing thousands of dental implants, Dr. Lesneski has a 100% success rate. The surgery lasts about two hours, and patients can generally return to work within a few days. Patients should be aware that they will be able to choose how they want their teeth to look, as well as eat the foods that they enjoy.
Dr. Lesneski and his partner, Dr. Michael Frey, give free treatment to those less fortunate. They recently started the "Second Chance" program, in which once a year, a deserving community member receives a full arch dental implant restoration procedure free of charge. In addition to their philanthropy, the duo visits community schools to give children the opportunity to learn and ask questions about oral surgery.
Mohmmed Margni MD, FACS, RPVI
PROCEDURE/SURGERY: Angiogram for Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD)
CREDENTIALS: Board Certified Vascular Surgeon, Cleveland Clinic Trained; Specialized Fellowship in Vascular Surgery
FACILITY: The Vascular Institute of Michigan, Flint
METHOD/DESCRIPTION: Peripheral Arterial Disease is a chronic disease in which plaque builds up in the arteries. If allowed to progress, blood flow in that artery can become limited or completely blocked. PAD is relatively common, affecting more than 10 million people in the U.S. It is more common in people 65 or older, but can occur at nearly any age.
An angiogram is an X-ray procedure that can be both diagnostic and therapeutic. It detects blockage using X-rays taken while injecting a contrast agent (iodine dye) into the artery. Angiograms are typically performed under sedation, and the procedure may last 15-20 minutes or up to several hours. Angiograms are a minimally invasive, outpatient procedure and can provide immediate relief.
Dr. Margni uses a technology called IVUS, which allows him to guide a miniature sound probe (transducer) through the arteries, and produce detailed images of the interior walls of the arteries in order to evaluate the amount of disease present; accurately determine the need for further treatment; assess the need for aggressive management of risk factors; and determine the predictors of transplant coronary artery disease.
Dr. Margni and The Vascular Institute of Michigan are leaders in "pedal access." Traditionally, the artery access site is the groin; but pedal access is used when an artery is blocked all the way down to the foot. This is a safer process than going in from the groin, and with less recovery time post-procedure.
Having completed this procedure thousands of times, Dr. Margni's success rate is extremely high. Although, every procedure always has risk of complications at the access site: bruising (ecchymosis), pain and bleeding (hematoma), blockage or leakage – all of which are rare.
After the procedure, a patient should expect one to three hours of bed rest to avoid bleeding at the artery access site. Because sedation is often utilized, patients will likely not be able to drive home. Once home, they should avoid heavy lifting, stooping or bending for two days to reduce the risk of bleeding at the arterial puncture site. Most other activities can be resumed.
Dr. Margni and The Vascular Institute of Michigan offer free PAD screening. As leaders in limb salvage and preservation, they pride themselves in treating each patient with dignity, respect, and an individualized patient care experience.
Vivekanand Palavali, MD
PROCEDURE/SURGERY: Minimally-invasive lumbar interbody fusion and pedicle screw and rod fixation after decompression of nerve roots
CREDENTIALS: Dr. Palavali completed medical school in India, and then began his research in Neurosciences at Washington School of Medicine at St. Louis for 18 months. He completed his residency training in Neurological Surgery at University of Chicago Hospital, receiving gold medals for standing first in class in pre-med, as well as in his final year of medical school. He also received the Best Resident Teacher Award as the Chief Resident of Neurological Surgery at the University of Chicago Hospital. He has been practicing neurosurgery in Flint for 20 years.
FACILITY: McLaren Hospital, Flint, Hurley Medical Center, Genesys Regional Medical Center
This procedure is done to treat severe low-back and/or leg pain present for more than six months that has failed conservative treatment. The surgery includes work done on the last two discs in the lumbar, the lower back, or the spine, and is done to fix the problem of discs (cartilage between vertebral bones in spine) degenerating, or the vertebrae slipping – which causes back and leg pain.
Significant benefits of this surgery are less dissection, less blood loss, less post-operative pain, shorter surgical duration, and faster recovery. Patients are able to walk on the evening or the next morning after surgery, and are usually in the hospital for a day or two as opposed to four to seven days, which was standard in the past. The spinal instrumentation and X-ray machines make surgery easier compared to conventional open surgeries. In properly selected patients, the leg pain is gone or better 85% of the time and the back pain is gone or better 70-80% of the time. Dr. Palavali has performed around 500 surgeries in the past five years, which is when this procedure gained popularity.
Patients should expect the usual risks of surgery: bleeding, infection, nerve irritation, loosening of the screws or rods, or adjacent level degeneration that may require additional surgery. There is usual post-op pain that is controlled with narcotics for a few days. Patients usually need to wear a removable lumbar brace for 12 weeks when they are walking, driving, or riding in a car. Bending and lifting will be restricted for 12 weeks, after which they may need physical therapy to recondition the back muscles. Patients may be able to return to jobs that require heavy physical work after they complete therapy.
Dr. Palavali enjoys giving back to the community by caring for patients at Genesee Free Clinic. He also enjoys educating the public in an entertaining fashion through the documentary films that he produces and books he has written.
PROCEDURE/SURGERY: Advanced cataract surgery with a Crystalens® focusing lens implant
CREDENTIALS: Owner of Complete Eye Care, Dr. Waters is a Board-Certified Ophthalmologist with over 25 years' experience in LASIK, cataract surgery, glaucoma and diabetic eye care. Practicing in Flint since 1988, he is a nationally recognized leader in Crystalens cataract surgery, and Complete Eye Care has been named a "Center of Excellence" for this procedure.
FACILITY: Cataract surgery is done at an outpatient facility, such as The Surgery Center in Flint.
As the eye ages, the lens hardens, becoming cloudy and impairing vision. The word "cataract" also means "waterfall," signifying that when the lens is cloudy, it's like looking through a waterfall. Cataracts affect color vision, making things look dull. They also dramatically increase the risk of falling, since it is difficult to navigate stairs, steps and curbs with cloudy vision. Other symptoms to look for are: cloudy, blurry vision, faded or yellowed colors, sensitivity to light and glare, halos around lights and/or starbursts, need for brighter lights for reading and other activities, increased difficulty driving at night, and vision no longer improved by vision.
Dr. Waters' cataract surgery involves topical anesthesia – using drops to numb the eye – making the procedure virtually painless. No-stitch, small incision is another strategy; Dr. Waters makes a tiny, 3mm incision that self-seals and needs no stitches. Because this method is minimally invasive, patients can experience improved vision almost immediately after surgery. Once the cataract is removed, Dr. Waters places a lens implant into the eye capsule, where the lens is located. The lens expands to fill the capsule and is designed to remain in place for the patient's lifetime. With modern cataract surgery, people have options for their lens implants, much like they have options for glasses and contacts.
In the past, the only option was a standard lens implant that mostly corrected distance vision, but left a need for reading glasses. Today, Dr. Waters offers a wide range of lens implants including a focusing lens implant called the Crystalens. This lens gives people the advantage of a wider range of vision compared to standard lens implants. Because this type is able to focus like the natural lens of the eye, patients enjoy good functional vision for driving, using a computer and reading. Significantly more patients implanted with a Crystalens (88%) could see better at all distances than those who received a standard IOL (36%). (Source: Bausch & Lomb Surgical).
Cataract surgery is done in an outpatient facility, and Dr. Waters' procedure only takes about 15 minutes. Recovery time is minimal, as patients resume normal activities within a day or two.
