If you have not reset your password since 2017, please use the 'forgot password' link below to reset your password and access your SAGE online account.
Forgot password?
Don’t have an account?
Create account
Technical Support
Find My Rep
Careers
Log in
My account
Log out
Contact
Toggle navigation
Disciplines
Social Sciences & Humanities
Aging & Gerontology
Anthropology & Archaeology
Area & Ethnic Studies
Arts & Humanities
Business & Management
Communication & Media Studies
Counseling & Psychotherapy
Criminology & Criminal Justice
Cultural Studies
Economic & Development Studies
Education
Family Studies
Gender & Sexuality Studies
Geography, Earth & Environmental Science
History
Interpersonal/Domestic Violence
Law
Political Science & International Relations
Psychology
Public Affairs
Research Methods, Statistics & Evaluation
Social Work & Human Services
Sociology
Study Skills
Religion
Vocational & Professional Studies
Health, Life & Biomedical Sciences
Allied Health & Other Health Specialties
Biology
Clinical Medicine
Health Services
Life & Biomedical Sciences
Nursing
Plant & Agricultural Sciences
Public Health
Veterinary Medicine
Engineering and Physical Sciences
Computing
Engineering & Materials Science
Mathematics, Physics & Chemistry
Products
Books
Journals
Digital Library Products
Digital Solutions for your Course
Open Access
Technology from SAGE
Resources
SAGE College Publishing
Instructors
Journal Authors/Editors/Reviewers
Book Authors/Editors
Societies & Associations
Librarians
Researchers
Subscription Agents
Rights and Permissions
Booksellers
Advertising & Promotion
Students
SAGE Custom Publishing
SAGE Talks
Open Access
Technical Support
About
News Room
About Us
Careers
Locations
Search Created with Sketch.
Search
cart Created with Sketch.
Cart
You are here
Journal > Health Education
×
×
×
Health Education Journal
Other Titles in:
Health Education | Health Policy | Health Services Research
eISSN: 17488176 | ISSN: 00178969 | Current volume: 80 | Current issue: 7 Frequency: Quarterly
Download flyer Recommend to Library
Description
Aims and Scope
Editorial Board
Abstracting / Indexing
Submission Guidelines
Health Education Journal is a world leading international journal in the fields of health education and health promotion.
First published in 1943, the journal is one of the oldest and most respected in the field. Its focus is on health education as it relates to individuals, populations, groups and communities who are vulnerable to, and/or at risk of, health issues and problems. It does not publish on the education and training of health professionals or on public health issues more generally.
Of special concern is the contribution that health education can make to personal and social well-being, to health promotion, and to individual and community health. Also of interest is health education's potential to promote adaptation, development and growth - among children and young people and in adult populations.
All papers are subjected to scientific peer review and authors can expect to receive at least two sets of comments on their work prior to a decision being made concerning publication.
Recently published papers have focused on topics such as life skills education; physical activity; healthy eating and nutrition; mental health; stress management and prevention; suicide prevention; drug and alcohol use; health literacy; health mentoring and coaching; healthy schools; workplace health promotion; smoking and tobacco use; health education for gender and sexual equality; safe schools and colleges; sexual and reproductive health education (including HIV); education to prevent infectious diseases; and education for oral health.
Special issues of the journal allow a focus on particular health education issue or concern. Recent special issues have focused on youth, health and justice; health, education and migration; and critical perspectives in health education.
The journal is a member of the Committee on Publication Ethics (COPE).
Health Education Journal is a peer reviewed journal publishing high quality papers on health education as it relates to individuals, populations, groups and communities who are vulnerable to, and/or at risk of, health issues and problems.
A strongly educational perspective is adopted with a focus on activities, interventions and programmes that work well in the contexts in which they are applied.
Health Education Journal does not review papers on the education and training of health professionals or on public health issues lacking a clear focus on health education as occurs through programmes, practices and interventions.
The journal is currently published eight times a year.
We accept original papers on health education research, methodology, policy development, and practice - particularly from an international perspective.
Editor in Chief
Peter J Aggleton Centre for Social Research in Health, UNSW Sydney, Australia
Associate Editors
Deevia Bhana University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa
Lisette Burrows University of Waikato, New Zealand
Cristina M. Caperchione University of Technology Sydney, Australia
Louise Warwick-Booth Leeds Beckett University, UK
Administrator
Fiona Thirlwell Administrator, UK
Editorial Board
Robert Block The University of Rochester, USA
Paul Branscum Miami University, USA
Fiona Brooks University of Technology, Sydney, Australia
Eric Walsh-Buhi Indiana University, Bloomington, USA
Chris Colvin Northern Illinois University, USA
Solveig Cunningham Emory University, USA
Angela Dawson University of Technology, Sydney, Australia
Katie Fitzpatrick University of Auckland, New Zealand
Becky Freeman The University of Sydney, Australia
Ruth Freeman University of Dundee, UK
Caroline Fusco University of Toronto, Canada
Nina Hallowell University of Oxford, UK
Gurpinder Lalli University of Wolverhampton, UK
Deana Leahy Monash University, Australia
Julie Money-Somers University of Sydney, Australia
Carolyn Pluim Northern Illinois University, USA
Emma Rich University of Bath, UK
Jonathan Shepherd University of Southampton, UK
Mamdouh Shubair University of Northern British Columbia, Canada
Morten Skovdal University of Copenhagen, Denmark
Will Small Simon Fraser University, Canada
Carla Treloar UNSW Australia, Australia
Wayne Tony Usher Griffith University, Australia
Patricia Vertinsky University of British Columbia, Canada
Maria Waling Umeå University, Sweden
Ian Warwick UCL Institute of Education, University College London, UK
Wendy Wills University of Hertfordshire, UK
Australian Education Index
British Nursing Index
Contents Pages in Education
Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature CINAHL
Current Contents / Social and Behavioral Sciences
EMBASE/Excerpta Medica
EMCare
Educational Research Abstracts Online - e-Psyche
International Bibliography of the Social Sciences
Journal Citation Reports Social Sciences
Journal Citation Reports/Social Sciences Edition
ProQuest Information & Learning
SciVal
Scopus
Social SciSearch
Social Sciences Citation Index
Manuscript Submission Guidelines: Health Education Journal
This Journal is a member of the Committee on Publication Ethics
Please read the guidelines below then visit the Journal’s submission site http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/hej to upload your manuscript. Please note that manuscripts not conforming to these guidelines may be returned.
Only manuscripts of sufficient quality that meet the aims and scope of Health Education Journal will be reviewed.
There are no fees payable to submit or publish in this journal.
As part of the submission process you will be required to warrant that you are submitting your original work, that you have the rights in the work, that you are submitting the work for first publication in the Journal and that it is not being considered for publication elsewhere and has not already been published elsewhere, and that you have obtained and can supply all necessary permissions for the reproduction of any copyright works not owned by you.
If you have any questions about publishing with SAGE, please visit the SAGE Journal Solutions Portal
What do we publish?
1.1 Aims & Scope
1.2 Article types
1.3 Writing your paper
Editorial policies
2.1 Peer review policy
2.2 Authorship
2.3 Acknowledgements
2.4 Funding
2.5 Declaration of conflicting interests
2.6 Data
Publishing policies
3.1 Publication ethics
3.2 Contributor's publishing agreement
3.3 Open access and author archiving
Preparing your manuscript
4.1 Formatting
4.2 Artwork, figures and other graphics
4.3 Supplementary material
4.4 Reference style
4.5 English language editing services
Submitting your manuscript
5.1 ORCID
5.2 Information required for completing your submission
5.3 Permissions
On acceptance and publication
6.1 SAGE Production
6.2 Online First publication
6.3 Access to your published article
6.4 Promoting your article
Further information
1. What do we publish?
1.1 Aims & Scope
Before submitting your manuscript to Health Education Journal, please ensure you have read the Aims & Scope.
1.2 Article Types
Health Education Journal publishes research papers and discussion papers on high quality health education and health promotion research, policy development and practice.
Please note: Health Education Journal does not review papers on aspects of medical, nurse or paramedical education, nor do we accept papers which focus on knowledge, perceptions, opinions or behaviours (without a health education focus) in relation to specific public health issues.
1.3 Writing your paper
The SAGE Author Gateway has some general advice and on how to get published, plus links to further resources.
1.3.1 Make your article discoverable
When writing up your paper, think about how you can make it discoverable. The title, keywords and abstract are key to ensuring readers find your article through search engines such as Google. For information and guidance on how best to title your article, write your abstract and select your keywords, have a look at this page on the Gateway: How to Help Readers Find Your Article Online
Back to top
2. Editorial policies
2.1 Peer review policy
Health Education Journal operates a strictly blinded peer review process in which the reviewer’s name is withheld from the author and, the author’s name from the reviewer. The reviewer may at their own discretion opt to reveal their name to the author in their review but our standard policy practice is for both identities to remain concealed.
As part of the submission process you will be asked to provide the names of peers who could be called upon to review your manuscript. Recommended reviewers should be experts in their fields and should be able to provide an objective assessment of the manuscript. Please be aware of any conflicts of interest when recommending reviewers. Examples of conflicts of interest include (but are not limited to) the below:
The reviewer should have no prior knowledge of your submission
The reviewer should not have recently collaborated with any of the authors
Reviewer nominees from the same institution as any of the authors are not permitted
Please note that the Editors are not obliged to invite/reject any recommended/opposed reviewers to assess your manuscript.
2.2 Authorship
All parties who have made a substantive contribution to the article should be listed as authors. Principal authorship, authorship order, and other publication credits should be based on the relative scientific or professional contributions of the individuals involved, regardless of their status. A student is usually listed as principal author on any multiple-authored publication that substantially derives from the student’s dissertation or thesis.
2.3 Acknowledgements
All contributors who do not meet the criteria for authorship should be listed in an Acknowledgements section. Examples of those who might be acknowledged include a person who provided purely technical help, or a department chair who provided only general support.
2.3.1 Third party submissions
Where an individual who is not listed as an author submits a manuscript on behalf of the author(s), a statement must be included in the Acknowledgements section of the manuscript and in the accompanying cover letter. The statements must:
Disclose this type of editorial assistance – including the individual’s name, company and level of input
Identify any entities that paid for this assistance
Confirm that the listed authors have authorized the submission of their manuscript via third party and approved any statements or declarations, e.g. conflicting interests, funding, etc.
Where appropriate, SAGE reserves the right to deny consideration to manuscripts submitted by a third party rather than by the authors themselves.
2.4 Funding
Health Education Journal requires all authors to acknowledge their funding in a consistent fashion under a separate heading. Please visit the Funding Acknowledgements page on the SAGE Journal Author Gateway to confirm the format of the acknowledgment text in the event of funding, or state that: This research received no specific grant from any funding agency in the public, commercial, or not-for-profit sectors.
2.5 Declaration of conflicting interests
Health Education Journal encourages authors to include a declaration of any conflicting interests and recommends you review the good practice guidelines on the SAGE Journal Author Gateway.2.6 Research ethics and patient consent
Medical research involving human subjects must be conducted according to the World Medical Association Declaration of Helsinki
Submitted manuscripts should conform to the ICMJE Recommendations for the Conduct, Reporting, Editing, and Publication of Scholarly Work in Medical Journals, and all papers reporting animal and/or human studies must state in the methods section that the relevant Ethics Committee or Institutional Review Board provided (or waived) approval. Please ensure that you have provided the full name and institution of the review committee, in addition to the approval number.
For research articles, authors are also required to state in the methods section whether participants provided informed consent and whether the consent was written or verbal.
Information on informed consent to report individual cases or case series should be included in the manuscript text. A statement is required regarding whether written informed consent for patient information and images to be published was provided by the patient(s) or a legally authorized representative.
Please also refer to the ICMJE Recommendations for the Protection of Research Participants
2.6 Data
SAGE acknowledges the importance of research data availability as an integral part of the research and verification process for academic journal articles.
Health Eduation Journal requests all authors submitting any primary data used in their research articles alongside their article submissions to be published in the online version of the journal, or provide detailed information in their articles on how the data can be obtained. This information should include links to third-party data repositories or detailed contact information for third-party data sources. Data available only on an author-maintained website will need to be loaded onto either the journal’s platform or a third-party platform to ensure continuing accessibility. Examples of data types include but are not limited to statistical data files, replication code, text files, audio files, images, videos, appendices, and additional charts and graphs necessary to understand the original research. The editor(s) can also grant exceptions for data that cannot legally or ethically be released. All data submitted should comply with Institutional or Ethical Review Board requirements and applicable government regulations. For further information, please contact the editorial office.
Back to top
3. Publishing Policies
3.1 Publication ethics
SAGE is committed to upholding the integrity of the academic record. We encourage authors to refer to the Committee on Publication Ethics’ International Standards for Authors and view the Publication Ethics page on the SAGE Author Gateway
3.1.1 Plagiarism
Health Education Journal and SAGE take issues of copyright infringement, plagiarism or other breaches of best practice in publication very seriously. We seek to protect the rights of our authors and we always investigate claims of plagiarism or misuse of published articles. Equally, we seek to protect the reputation of the journal against malpractice. Submitted articles may be checked with duplication-checking software. Where an article, for example, is found to have plagiarised other work or included third-party copyright material without permission or with insufficient acknowledgement, or where the authorship of the article is contested, we reserve the right to take action including, but not limited to: publishing an erratum or corrigendum (correction); retracting the article; taking up the matter with the head of department or dean of the author's institution and/or relevant academic bodies or societies; or taking appropriate legal action.
3.1.2 Prior publication
If material has been previously published it is not generally acceptable for publication in a SAGE journal. However, there are certain circumstances where previously published material can be considered for publication. Please refer to the guidance on the SAGE Author Gateway or if in doubt, contact the Editor at the address given below.
3.2 Contributor's publishing agreement
Before publication, SAGE requires the author as the rights holder to sign a Journal Contributor’s Publishing Agreement. SAGE’s Journal Contributor’s Publishing Agreement is an exclusive licence agreement which means that the author retains copyright in the work but grants SAGE the sole and exclusive right and licence to publish for the full legal term of copyright. Exceptions may exist where an assignment of copyright is required or preferred by a proprietor other than SAGE. In this case copyright in the work will be assigned from the author to the society. For more information please visit the SAGE Author Gateway
3.3 Open access and author archiving
Health Education Journal offers optional open access publishing via the SAGE Choice programme. For more information please visit the SAGE Choice website. For information on funding body compliance, and depositing your article in repositories, please visit SAGE Publishing Policies on our Journal Author Gateway.
Back to top
4. Preparing your manuscript for submission
4.1 Formatting
Papers should be no longer than 6,000 words, including all references and footnotes. Authors should keep tables and illustrations to an absolute minimum, and may be asked to remove those which the Editor-in-Chief finds excessive.
Research papers should have an abstract which makes clear the study’s objectives, design, setting, method, results, conclusion. For discussion papers; the author/s should give an summary of what the paper attempts to do, together with its overall findings. Abstracts should not exceed 250 words. Up to 5 keywords should be included.
Please note the following points:
Ensure the correct tense is used. The most common error is slippage between past and present tenses (papers should adopt the past tense), and there is often a misuse of the simple past tense when the in fact the past perfect is needed.
Do not use contractions (e.g. didn’t, don’t) à did not, do not, instead.
Do not use the word ‘male’ as a noun (e.g. as in 100 males participated in the study). Male is an adjective (à 100 men instead).
Remember, USA is the noun and US is the adjective. Do not use United States if you mean the USA (there is the United States of Mexico, as well as the USA).
Minimise the use of acronyms and contractions (e.g. MSM, SWs) à men who have sex with men, sex workers, instead.
Ensure the authors’ first and second names are in the correct order.
Do not use pronominal terms such as Professor, Dr, Mr, Ms, etc with authors’ names, corresponding authors’ details, and acknowledgements.
There should be no mention of degrees (e.g. BA, MSC, PhD) alongside authors’ details or in acknowledgements.
All journal titles should be quoted in full.
The preferred format for your manuscript is Word. LaTeX files are also accepted. Word and (La)Tex templates are available on the Manuscript Submission Guidelines page of our Author Gateway.
4.2 Artwork, figures and other graphics
For guidance on the preparation of illustrations, pictures and graphs in electronic format, please visit SAGE’s Manuscript Submission Guidelines
Figures supplied in colour will appear in colour online regardless of whether or not these illustrations are reproduced in colour in the printed version. For specifically requested colour reproduction in print, you will receive information regarding the costs from SAGE after receipt of your accepted article.
4.3 Supplementary material
This journal is able to host additional materials online (e.g. datasets, podcasts, videos, images etc) alongside the full-text of the article. For more information please refer to our guidelines on submitting supplementary files
4.4 Reference style
Health Education Journal adheres to the SAGE Harvard reference style. View the SAGE Harvard guidelines to ensure your manuscript conforms to this reference style.
If you use EndNote to manage references, you can download the SAGE Harvard EndNote output file.
4.5 English language editing services
Authors seeking assistance with English language editing, translation, or figure and manuscript formatting to fit the journal’s specifications should consider using SAGE Language Services. Visit SAGE Language Services on our Journal Author Gateway for further information.
Back to top
5. Submitting your manuscript
Health Education Journal l is hosted on SAGE Track, a web based online submission and peer review system powered by ScholarOne™ Manuscripts. Visit http://mc.manuscriptcentral.com/hej to login and submit your article online.
IMPORTANT: Please check whether you already have an account in the system before trying to create a new one. If you have reviewed or authored for the journal in the past year it is likely that you will have had an account created. For further guidance on submitting your manuscript online please visit ScholarOne Online Help.
5.1 ORCID
As part of our commitment to ensuring an ethical, transparent and fair peer review process SAGE is a supporting member of ORCID, the Open Researcher and Contributor ID. ORCID provides a unique and persistent digital identifier that distinguishes researchers from every other researcher, even those who share the same name, and, through integration in key research workflows such as manuscript and grant submission, supports automated linkages between researchers and their professional activities, ensuring that their work is recognized.
The collection of ORCID iDs from corresponding authors is now part of the submission process of this journal. If you already have an ORCID iD you will be asked to associate that to your submission during the online submission process. We also strongly encourage all co-authors to link their ORCID ID to their accounts in our online peer review platforms. It takes seconds to do: click the link when prompted, sign into your ORCID account and our systems are automatically updated. Your ORCID iD will become part of your accepted publication’s metadata, making your work attributable to you and only you. Your ORCID iD is published with your article so that fellow researchers reading your work can link to your ORCID profile and from there link to your other publications.
If you do not already have an ORCID iD please follow this link to create one or visit our ORCID homepage to learn more.
5.2 Information required for completing your submission
You will be asked to provide contact details and academic affiliations for all co-authors via the submission system and identify who is to be the corresponding author. These details must match what appears on your manuscript. At this stage please ensure you have included all the required statements and declarations and uploaded any additional supplementary files (including reporting guidelines where relevant).
5.3 Permissions
Please also ensure that you have obtained any necessary permission from copyright holders for reproducing any illustrations, tables, figures or lengthy quotations previously published elsewhere. For further information including guidance on fair dealing for criticism and review, please see the Copyright and Permissions page on the SAGE Author Gateway
Back to top
6. On acceptance and publication
6.1 SAGE Production
Your SAGE Production Editor will keep you informed as to your article’s progress throughout the production process. Proofs will be sent by PDF to the corresponding author and should be returned promptly. Authors are reminded to check their proofs carefully to confirm that all author information, including names, affiliations, sequence and contact details are correct, and that Funding and Conflict of Interest statements, if any, are accurate. Please note that if there are any changes to the author list at this stage all authors will be required to complete and sign a form authorising the change.
6.2 Online First publication
Online First allows final articles (completed and approved articles awaiting assignment to a future issue) to be published online prior to their inclusion in a journal issue, which significantly reduces the lead time between submission and publication. Visit the SAGE Journals help page for more details, including how to cite Online First articles.
6.3 Access to your published article
SAGE provides authors with online access to their final article.
6.4 Promoting your article
Publication is not the end of the process! You can help disseminate your paper and ensure it is as widely read and cited as possible. The SAGE Author Gateway has numerous resources to help you promote your work. Visit the Promote Your Article page on the Gateway for tips and advice.
Back to top
7. Further information
Any correspondence, queries or additional requests for information on the manuscript submission process should be sent to the Health Educational Journal editorial office at healtheducationjournal@gmail.com
Read Online
Sample Issues
Current Issue
Email Alert
Permissions
Foreign rights
Reprints and sponsorship
Advertising
Subscribe
Individual Subscription, Print Only
£80.00
£ 80.00
$148.00
Hospital Subscription, Combined (Print & E-access)
£266.00
$492.00
Non-Academic Institution Subscription, Combined (Print & E-access)
£266.00
$492.00
Institutional Subscription, E-access
£726.00
$1,341.00
Institutional Subscription, Print Only
£791.00
$1,460.00
Institutional Subscription & Backfile Lease, E-access Plus Backfile (All Online Content)
£807.00
$1,490.00
Institutional Subscription, Combined (Print & E-access)
£807.00
£ 807.00
$1,490.00
Institutional Subscription & Backfile Lease, Combined Plus Backfile (Current Volume Print & All Online Content)
£888.00
$1,639.00
Institutional Backfile Purchase, E-access (Content through 1998)
£3,119.00
$5,760.00
Individual, Single Print Issue
£13.00
$24.00
Info
Institutional, Single Print Issue
£109.00
$201.00
Info
× Close
To order single issues of this journal, please contact SAGE Customer Services at 1-800-818-7243 / 1-805-583-9774 with details of the volume and issue you would like to purchase.
More men die of cancer than women - new research reveals disease is a bigger threat to males - Mirror Online
The International Agency for Research on Cancer also found that males are 24% more likely to be diagnosed with the disease than females
Killer: Cancer kills 4.6m men every year compared with 3.5m women (Image: Getty)
Men are 50% more likely to die from cancer than women, research reveals today.
Worldwide the disease kills 4.6million men every year compared with 3.5million women.
This may be because cancers that are hard to treat such as bladder or liver cancer are more prevalent in males.
The other two biggest cancer killers are lung and stomach.
Men are also 24% more likely to be diagnosed with the disease than women, the ­International Agency for Research on Cancer found.
Cancer Research UK said greater life expectancy will result in more deaths from the disease, as will smoking.
NUCLEAR SULFATED OXYSTEROL, POTENT REGULATOR OF LIPID HOMEOSTASIS, FOR THERAPY OF HYPERCHOLESTEROLEMIA, HYPERTRIGLYCERIDES, FATTY LIVER DISEASES, AND ATHEROSCLEROSIS - Ren, Shunlin
United States Patent Application 20100273761
Ren, Shunlin (Richmond, VA, US)
Pandak, William M. (Richmond, VA, US)
12/708803
435/375, 552/546
A61K31/575; A61P1/16; A61P3/06; A61P7/00; A61P9/10; A61P29/00; C07J9/00; C12N5/00
Download PDF 20100273761 PDF help
20040176285 Tip39 polypeptides September, 2004 Juppner et al.
WO2001015676A2
Javitt et al., "Cholesterol and hydroxycholesterol sulfotransferases: Identification, distinction from dehydroepiandrosterone sulfotransferace, and differential tissue expression". Endocrinology, vol. 142, pages 2978-2984, 2001.
Williams et al., "Effects of cholesterol sulfate on lipid metabolism in cultured human keratinocytes and fibroblasts". Journal of Lipid Research, vol. 28, pages 955-967, 1987.
1. Substantially purified 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate having the following formula:
2. A serum lipid-lowering composition, said composition comprising 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate, and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier.
3. A method for lowering a level of one or more serum lipids in a patient in need thereof, said method comprising the step of administering 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate to said patient in an amount sufficient to lower said level of said one or more serum lipids in said patient.
4. The method of claim 3, wherein said one or more serum lipids include cholesterol and triglycerides.
5. A method to treat or prevent a pathological condition associated with high levels of one or more serum lipids in a patient in need thereof, said method comprising the step of administering 5-cholesten-3β, 25-dial 3-sulphate to said patient in an amount sufficient to lower a level of said one or more serum lipids in said patient and prevent or treat said pathological condition.
6. The method of claim 5, wherein said serum lipids include cholesterol and triglycerides.
7. The method of claim 5, wherein said pathological condition is selected from the group consisting of hyperlipidemia, hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, atherosclerosis, and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD).
8. A method of preventing or treating lipid-associated inflammation or a condition associated with lipid-associated inflammation in a patient in need thereof, comprising the step of administering 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate to said patient in an amount sufficient to prevent or treat said lipid-associated inflammation or said condition associated with said lipid-associated inflammation in said patient.
9. The method of claim 8, wherein said condition is selected from nonalcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) and atherosclerosis.
10. A method of decreasing lipid synthesis in a patient in need thereof, comprising the step of administering 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate to said patient in an amount sufficient to decrease lipid synthesis in said patient.
11. A method of increasing cholesterol secretion or degradation in a cell, comprising the step of increasing a level of 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate in said cell.
This application is a continuation-in-part (CAP) of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11/739,330, filed Apr. 24, 2007, and claims benefit of U.S. provisional patent application 61/154,065, filed Feb. 20, 2009. U.S. Ser. No. 11/739,330 is a national stage OP claiming benefit of International patent application PCT/US2005/033874 filed on Sep. 21, 2005, which in turn claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 60/621,537 filed on Oct. 25, 2004. The complete contents of each of these applications are herein incorporated by reference.
This invention was made, in part, with government support under Grant No. R01 HL078898 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.
The invention generally relates to lipid-lowering therapies. In particular, the invention provides a nuclear cholesterol metabolite, 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate, that decreases lipid biosynthesis and increases cholesterol secretion and degradation, and is thus useful for the treatment and prevention of hypercholesterolemia, hypertriglyceridemia, atherosclerosis, and conditions related to fat-accumulation and inflammation (e.g. nonalcoholic tatty liver disease. NAFLD, and atherosclerosis).
FIG. 2A-C. Effects of overexpression of StarD1 on Cyp7A1 mRNA expression in primary rat hepatocytes. At day five following infection of virus control, virus encoding StarD1, and CYP27A1 as indicated, cells were harvested and total RNAs were extracted. To each lane, 20 tilt of total RNA was loaded. Specific Cyp7A1 mRNAs (Panel A) were determined by Northern blot analysis. Cyclophilin was used as control (Panel B). The expressions of Cyp7A1 mRNAs were increased by 6-fold (n=3) following overexpression of StarD1 and 2.5 fold following CYP27A1 as indicated (Panel C).
FIGS. 4A and B. Phase distribution of [14C]cholesterol derivatives in nuclei of primary rat hepatocytes following overexpression of StarD1 and CYP7A1. Rat primary hepatocytes were infected with the indicated viruses. Forty-eight hrs later cells were harvested and subcellular fractions prepared. Fractions E and F were processed for lipid analysis as explained under Experimental Procedures". A. Nuclear inner membrane (Fraction E). B, Nuclear digests (Fraction F).
FIG. 5A-C. HPLC analysis of [14C]cholesterol derivatives in the nuclear fraction (Fraction D) and non-nuclear fraction (Fraction A). Twenty-four hrs following the indicated recombinant adenovirus infection, cells were harvested and nuclear and non-nuclear fractions (Fractions A and D) were isolated, extracted by the Folch method and the methanol/water phase analyzed. A, nuclear extracts (Fraction D) 195 nm profiles. B, nuclear extracts (Fraction D) 14C profiles. C, non-nuclear extracts (Fraction A) 14C profiles. In each case, nuclear methanol/water extracts of the equivalent of 5×106 cells were loaded.
FIG. 6A-F. HPLC analysis of the cholesterol derivatives extracted from the nuclei, mitochondria, and culture media. Rat primary hepatocytes were infected with the StarD1 adenovirus and two hrs later [14C]cholesterol was added to the media. Twenty-four hrs following, cells and culture media were harvested. Nuclei and mitochondria were isolated as described under "Experimental Procedures". Total lipids were extracted from the nuclei, mitochondria, and culture media by Folch partitioning into methanol phase, and analyzed by HPLC as described in "Experimental Procedures". A-C, 195 nm profiles. D-F, radioactivity profiles.
FIG. 7A-D. Characterization of the nuclear oxysterol by enzymatic digestion followed by HPLC and TLC. Nuclear [14C]oxysterol derivatives Were isolated from StarD1 overexpressing rat primary hepatocytes and digested with 1 mg/ml of sulfatase in acetic acid buffer, pH 5.0, overnight. Total lipids were extracted with chloroform/methanol and separated by Folch partitioning. The products in the chloroform and methanol/water phase were analyzed by HPLC using a mixture of 965 ml hexane, 25 ml isopropanol, and 10 ml acetic acid as mobile phase, 1.3 ml/min flow rate and 14C quantified. A, HPLC elution profile of the sulfatase digestion products. B, HPLC elution profile of [14C]27-hydroxycholesterol. C, HPLC elution profile of [14C]25-hydroxycholesterol D, products from the chloroform phase were further analyzed by TLC using a mixture of toluene:ethyl acetate (2:3) as developing solvent. 27-C represents 27-hydroxycholesterol; P, sulfatase digestion products of the purified nuclear oxysterols; 25-C, 25-hydroxycholesterol.
FIG. 8A-C. Characterization of nuclear oxysterol by negative ion-triple quadruple mass spectromeny (LC/MS/MS). (A) A selected ion chromatogram of mass ion at m/z 481; (B) the Q1 full scan spectrum; (C) product scan spectrum of m/z 481. The amu represents atomic mass units, and cps, counts per second.
FIG. 9A-B. Effect of the nuclear oxysterol on cholesterol uptake and bile acid biosynthesis. Rat primary hepatocyes were treated with nuclear extracts (methanollwater phase) (A and B) or purified nuclear oxysterol dissolved in control nuclear extract (C) 24 hrs after plating them. Then [14C]cholesterol was added as described in FIG. 1. Culture media were then harvested at 0, 6, 12, and 24 hrs and radioactivity quantified (A). Bile acid synthesis rates (B and C) were measured as the conversion of [14C]cholesterol into methanol/water extractable counts as described in (9).
FIG. 12A-D. (A) addition of sulfate group onto 3β-position of 25-hydroxycholesterol for the synthesis of the novel nuclear oxysterol by incubation with sulfur trioxide triethyl amine complex; (B) mass spectrophometric analysis of the product after incubation with the sulfur trioxide and purified by HPLC. Mass ion, m/z 481, represents 25-hydroxycholesterol (M.W. 482)+Sulfate group (M.W.80); (C) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analysis of the 25-hydroxycholesterol 3-sulfate as starting material for the synthesis. The chemical shift of the proton at C3 in the molecule can be seen at 3.35 ppm; and (D) NMR analysis of the product shows the proton at C3 in the molecule has been shifted to 4.12 ppm from 3.35 ppm in its original compound.
FIG. 13A-C. TLC and HPLC analysis of the newly synthesized [14C]cholesterol. After incubation of the 25HC3S-treated cells with [1-14C]acetate for 2 hrs, the cells were harvested. The total neutral lipids were extracted with chloroform/methanol and partitioned into chloroform phase. The [14C]-acetate derivatives were analyzed by thin layer chromatography (TLC) and HPLC. A. TLC analysis of the [14C]-acetate derivatives: the chloroform phase extracts of the equivalent of 5×106 cells were loaded onto each lane, separated by developing system of tuluene:acetyl acetate, and visualized by Imagine Reader. B. HPLC analysis of the [14C]-acetate derivatives: the chloroform phase extracts of the equivalent of 5×106 cells were loaded onto silica gel column. The effluents were collected, 0.5 min/fraction. The radioactivities in each fraction were determined by Scintillation Counting. C. A summary of three experiments of HPLC analysis. Each bar represents the mean of three experiments±standard deviation.
FIG. 14A-H. HPLC analysis of cholesterol levels in microsomal fractions. The total lipids were extracted from 25HC3S-treated (left panels) or 25HC- (right panels) treated HepG2 cells. α,β-Unsaturated ketones were generated by incubating the extracted sterols with cholesterol oxidase and were analyzed by normal phase HPLC: Panels A-C: the lipids from the cells treated with 0, 3, and 6 μM of 25HC3S; D. A summary of a series experiments, the lipids from the cells treated with 0, 3, 6, 12, and 25 μM of 25HC3S. Panels E-G: the lipids from the cells treated with 0, 3, and 6 μM of 25HC; D. A summary of a series experiments, the lipids from the cells treated with 0, 3, 6, 12, and 25 μM of 25HC. The data represent a typical result from one of three independent experiments.
FIG. 15A-D. 25HC3S regulates HMGR mRNA Expression. Real time RT-PCR analysis of HMG CoA R reductase expression in HepG2 cells (Panels A and B). Western blot analysis of protein levels of HMG CoA reductase (Panel C). Total RNAs were purified using SV Total RNA Isolation Kit (Promega) from the cells treated with 25HC3S at concentrations as indicated (A) and incubation at 12 nM of 25HC3S for the different times (effect on HMG CoA mRNA) (Panel B). Two μg of total RNA was used for cDNA preparation (RT) and performed as manufacture recommended (Invitrogen), and 10 ng of cDNA was used for real time PCR. The expression levels were normalized to GAPDH. The total extracted protein, 100 μg, was loaded in each well for each condition as indicated in panel C. The hands of HMG CoA reductase (HMGR) were qualitated by laser density scanning. The data from three experiments were summarized in Panel D. Each value represents mean of three experiments±standard derivation.
FIG. 16A-C. Effects of 25HC and 25HC3S on the levels of HMG CoA reductase mRNA in hepatocytes. Total RNA was extracted from the HepG2 cells cultured either in 10% FBS media (Panel A) or in 10% lipid-depleted sera (Panel B) and treated with either 25HC or 25HC3S as indicated. The real time RT-PCR analysis was performed as described in FIG. 16. The data represent a typical result from one of three independent experiments. The 25HC or 25HC3S affects the HMG CoA reductase expression in primary human hepatocytes (Panel C). The data represent a typical result from one of three independent experiments.
FIG. 17A-E. HPLC analysis of 25HC in PHH cells treated with 25HC. The total lipids were extracted from 25HC-treated PHH cells. α,β-Unsaturated ketones were generated by incubating the extracted sterols with cholesterol oxidase and were analyzed by normal phase HPLC: Panels A-E: the lipids from the cells treated with 0, 3, 6, 12, 25 μM of 25HC as indicated. The data represent a typical result from two independent experiments.
FIG. 18A-D. Western blot analysis of SREBPs activation following 25HC3S or 25HC treatment in HepG2 cells. Total proteins were extracted from HepG2 cells treated with 25HC in ethanol (0.1%) (Panel A and C) or 25HC3S in DMSO (0.1%) (Panel B and D), cultured in the media in absence (Panels A and B) or presence (Panels C and D) of mevinolin (50 mM) and mevalonate (0.5 mM). SREBP-1 and SREBP-2 protein levels in the cells were determined by Western blot analysis. The extracted protein (100 μg) was loaded onto each lane for each condition as indicated. The data represent a typical result from one of three independent experiments. The trends of the protein levels are highly reproducible.
FIG. 22A-E. 25HC3S enhances nuclear PPRE transcriptional activities and inhibits LPS-induced TNF-α and IL-1β expressions and releases. THP-1 macrophages were treated with the indicated concentrations of 25HC3S or 2 μM of rosiglitazone for 4 hrs. A, The nuclear proteins were extracted and PPRE transcriptional activities were determined by the ELISA. R represents rosiglitazone. Reporter gene activity assays were determined in H441 cells following co-transfection with promoter reporter gene and expression of plasmid pCMX-PPARγ: 25HC3S (B) or rosiglitazone (C) with or without 1 μM of T0070907 was added and incubated for another 24 hrs. Luciferase activities were determined. For competitive assays, the cells were preincubated with T0070907 for 1 hr and incubated with 25HC3S at the different concentrations as indicated. After 24 hrs, the cells were incubated with LPS for 3 hrs. The expression of mRNA for TNFα and IL-1β was determined by real-time RT-PCR (D). The released TNFα and IL-1β concentrations in the media following the addition of LPS were measured by ELISA respectively (E). Data represent means±SD (n=3). The symbol * represents significant difference (p<0.05).
FIG. 24A-E. 25HC3S failed to suppress LPS induced TNFα. IL-1β and NFκB, and TNFα induced IκB mRNA expression in the PPARγ knock down macrophages. Following expression of PPARγ-specific siRNAs in the macrophages treated with or without 12 μM of 25HC3S for 48 hrs, nuclear PPARγ protein levels were determined by Western bolt analysis as shown in A. The mRNA levels of IκB and NFκB (B), TNFα (C), IL-1β (D), and NFκB (E) were determined by real time RT-PCR analysis. The values represent means±SD (n=3). The symbol * represents statistically significance (p<0.05).
FIG. 25A-C. Effects of 25HC3S on expression of IκB mRNA and protein levels in THP-1 macrophages. Effects of 25HC3S and 25HC on IκB protein levels were analyzed by Western blot following the treatment for 24 hrs (A and B) and mRNA levels were determined by real time RT-PCR following the treatment for 6 hrs (C). The Western blot data represents one of three experiments.
FIG. 27A-F. 25HC3S increases nuclear translocation of PPARγ in THP-1 macrophages. Confocal microscopy analysis of intracellular translocation of PPARγ protein distribution. The nuclear marker was stained with DAP1 and PPARγ protein was detected by anti-PPARγ immunofluorescence. For every figure, the top left panel shows nuclear staining; the top right panel shows the localization of PPARγ with the monoclonal antibody; the bottom right panel shows a differential interference contrast (DIC) image; the bottom right panel shows the merged image obtained by superimposing the three images mentioned above. Macrophages were treated with vehicle DMSO under 100× magnification (A) and 60× (B); treated with 25 μM of 25HC3S, 100× (D) and 60× (E); treated with 1 mM of T0070907 (C; preincubated with 1 μM of T0070907 for 2 hrs and cultured with 25HC3S for 4 hrs (F). The data represent one of three separate experiments. Scale bar=10 μm.
Most importantly, in vivo experimental studies showed that only one administration of the oxysterol decreases serum cholesterol and triglyceride by 20-40% and significantly increases HDL. Small molecule PPARγ agonists have been used for therapy of diabetes for a couple of decades and small molecule LXR agonists have been tested for therapy of hypercholesterolemia for couple of years. However, these agonists inevitably carry serious side effects. The new oxysterol, a naturally occurring PPARγ agonist and LXRs antagonist, has been shown to inhibit cholesterol and lipid biosynthesis in both hepatocytes and macrophages via LXR/SREBP and repress inflammatory responses via PPARγ/IκB/NFκB signaling pathway. Therefore, this naturally occurring oxysterol serves as a new class of medication for the treatment and the prevention of atherosclerosis, fatty liver, diabetes, and inflammatory diseases.
Example 6 shows that 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate also inhibits inflammation. Without being bound by theory, it appears that 25HC3S acts in macrophages as a PPARγ activator, and suppresses inflammatory responses via PPARγ/IκB/NFκB signaling pathway. 25HC3S appears to attenuate the inflammatory response by increasing hcB expression and decreasing IκB ubiquitination and degradation, thus exerting its effect through the PPARγ/IκB/NFB signaling pathway. As such, this compound is also useful for treating conditions that are caused or exacerbated by inflammation, particularly inflammation caused by lipid accumulation in cells, such as arthrosclerosis and fatty liver diseases.
The compound of the invention will be provided in a substantially purified form for use in the methods of the invention. By "substantially purified" we mean that the sulfated oxysterol is provided in a form that is at least about 75%, preferably at least about 80%, more preferably at least about 90%, and most preferably at least about 95% or more free from other chemical species, e.g. other macromolecules such as proteins or peptides, nucleic acids, lipids, and other cholesterol-related species (e.g. other cholesterol derivatives such as cholesterol metabolites, chemically modified forms of cholesterol such as various other hydroxylated cholesterol species, etc.). In one embodiment of the invention, the sulfated oxysterol of the invention may be isolated and purified from living cells. One embodiment of this method is described in Example 1 in the Examples section below. However, those of skill in the art will recognize that in order to generate larger quantities of the sulfated oxysterol, the compound may also be synthesized, either by synthetic chemical means, or by methods which involve the use of recombinant DNA technology (e.g. by using cloned enzymes to carry out suitable modifications of cholesterol). An exemplary synthesis scheme for 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate is as follows: A mixture of 25-hydroxycholesterol (0.1 mmol) and sulfur trioxide triethyl amine complex (0.12 mmol) in dry pyridine was stirred at room temperature for 2 hrs. The solvent was evaporated at 40° C. under nitrogen stream, and the pellets were dissolved in 500 μl of alkalined CH3OH, pH 8.0. The sodium 5-cholesten-3b, 25-diol 3-sulfate was purified by flash chromatography to afford the product as a white solid.
Those of skill in the art will recognize that the phrases "high lipid level", "high cholesterol level" and "high triglyceride level" generally relate to cholesterol levels in serum in the range of about 200 mg/dl or more, and triglyceride levels in scrum greater than about 150 mg/dl. A determination of "high cholesterol" or "high triglyceride" is typically made by a health professional such as a physician, and the established meaning of "high" levels may vary somewhat from professional to professional. Further, the precise definition may vary somewhat depending on the state of the art, e.g. on findings from studies which investigate the relationship between lipid levels and diseases. Nevertheless, those of skill in the art will be able to identify suitable candidates for administration of the sulfated oxysterol of the present invention. By "lowering lipid levels" or "lowering triglyceride levels" or "lowering cholesterol levels" we mean that the level of free serum lipid/cholesterol/triglyceride in a patient is decreased by at least about 10% to 30%, and preferably at least about 30 to 50%, and more preferably at least about 50 to 70%, and most preferably at least about 70 to about 100%, or more, in comparison to the level of lipid in the patient prior to administration of the sulfated oxysterol. Alternatively, the extent of the decrease may be determined by comparison to similar untreated control individuals to whom the compound is not administered. Those of skill in the art are familiar with such determinations, e.g. the use of controls, or the measurement of lipid levels in the blood before and after administration of an agent that lowers lipids.
The compounds may be administered in the pure form or in a pharmaceutically acceptable formulation including suitable elixirs, hinders, and the like (generally referred to a "carriers") or as pharmaceutically acceptable salts (e.g. alkali metal salts such as sodium, potassium, calcium or lithium salts, ammonium, etc.) or other complexes. It should be understood that the pharmaceutically acceptable formulations include liquid and solid materials conventionally utilized to prepare both injectable dosage forms and solid dosage forms such as tablets and capsules and aerosolized dosage forms. In addition, the compounds may be formulated with aqueous or oil based vehicles. Water may be used as the carrier for the preparation of compositions (e.g. injectable compositions), which may also include conventional buffers and agents to render the composition isotonic. Other potential additives and other materials (preferably those which are generally regarded as safe [GRAS]) include: colorants; flavorings; surfactants (TWEEN, oleic acid, etc.); solvents, stabilizers, elixirs, and binders or encapsulants (lactose, liposomes, etc). Solid diluents and excipients include lactose, starch, conventional disintegrating agents, coatings and the like. Preservatives such as methyl paraben or benzalkium chloride may also be used. Depending on the formulation, it is expected that the active composition will consist of about 1% to about 99% of the composition and the vehicular "carrier" will constitute about 1% to about 99% of the composition. The pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention may include any suitable pharmaceutically acceptable additives or adjuncts to the extent that they do not hinder or interfere with the therapeutic effect of the sulfated oxysterol.
The administration of the compound of the present invention may be intermittent, or at a gradual or continuous, constant or controlled rate to a patient. In addition, the time of day and the number of times per day that the pharmaceutical formulation is administered may vary and are best determined by a skilled practitioner such as a physician. Further, the effective close can vary depending upon factors such as the mode of delivery, gender, age, and other conditions of the patient, as well as the extent or progression of the disease condition being treated. The compounds may be provided alone, or in combination with other medications or treatment modalities.
Sterol ligands play key roles in the maintenance of lipid homeostasis. The present study has identified a novel regulatory nuclear sulfated oxysterol, which is generated in mitochondria, translocates to the nucleus, and upregulates the rate of bile acid synthesis. At forty-eight hrs after infection with recombinant adenovirus encoding a mitochondria cholesterol transport protein (StarD1) in primary rat hepatocytes, bile acid synthesis increased by 5-fold. Concurrently, [14C]oxysterol derivatives with retention time at 11.50 min in HPLC elution profile was dramatically increased both in the mitochondria and in the nucleus, but not in culture media. The oxysterol product could be extracted into the chloroform phase from the methanol/water phase after sulfatase treatment, and had the same physical properties as 25-hydroxycholesterol. LC/MS/MS analysis showed the nuclear oxysterol with a molecular ion, m/z 481, in the Q1 full scan spectrum, and the presence of fragment ions at m/z 59, 80, 97, and 123 in its product scan spectrum. Thus, the nuclear oxyserol derivative can be characterized as 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate. The addition of nuclear extract from the cells overexpressing StarD1 or the addition of the purified oxysterol to primary rat hepatocytes significantly increased the rates of bile acid synthesis (>3.5 fold), suggesting this oxysterol derivative is an active regulator. These results provide evidence for a new regulatory pathway by which a novel potent regulatory nuclear sulfated oxysterol is generated in mitochondria, translocates to the nucleus, and upregulates bile acid synthesis.
The biotransformation of cholesterol to primary bile acids occurs via two main pathways in hepatocytes (1). The "neutral" pathway is considered to be the major pathway at least in humans and rats (2). In this pathway the sterol nucleus is modified before the side-chain, beginning with hydroxylation of cholesterol at the 7α position. This reaction is catalyzed by cholesterol 7α-hydroxylase (CYP7A1), the first and rate-limiting step of this pathway. The ability to lower plasma cholesterol levels via the pharmacological control of CYP7A1 expression represents a therapeutic approach that has been in use for the last 30 years and is still of intense research interest. Multiple negative and positive modulators of CYP7A1 transcription have been identified both in tissue culture systems and in vivo (3) and many of these modulators are oxysterols, such as hydroxy-cholesterol molecules and bile acids. They function by activating nuclear receptors, such as liver X receptor (LXR) and farnesoid X receptor (FXR), which in turn regulate the expression of regulatory genes involved in bile acid biosynthesis, such as CYP7A1 and sterol 12α-hydroxylase (CYP8B1), the enzyme specific for cholic acid synthesis. Oxysterols are also key regulatory molecules for the expression of many other genes involved in the homeostasis of cholesterol, and other lipids, such as 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase, low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptor, some ATP-binding cassette transporters, like the ABCA1 and ABCG8, and many others. They function by modulating the activity of either nuclear receptors or other transcriptional factors, such as the sterol regulatory binding proteins (SREBPs) (4-6). Thus, characterizing endogenous synthesized oxysterols and their mechanism of action is critical for a better understanding of lipid homeostasis. The initial step in the "acidic" pathway is catalyzed by the enzyme mitochondria sterol 27-hydroxylase (CYP27A1). The oxysterol intermediates of the "acidic" pathway such as 25-, or 27-hydroxycholesterol have been shown in vitro to be potent regulators in cholesterol homeostasis (7). Increased CYP27A1 activity in peripheral tissues may both down-regulate cholesterol synthesis through the SREBP pathway, and enhance the efflux of cholesterol and its elimination via LXR (8). However, the physiological and authentic in vivo LXR ligand is unknown (9).
To test this hypothesis, a recombinant adenovinis encoding StarD1 was used to overexpress StarD1 in primary rat hepatocytes in order to increase bile acid synthesis. In this study we present evidence for previously unappreciated sulfated oxysterols in the nucleus of cells infected with the StarD1 adenovirus. The chemical structure of the most abundant nuclear oxysterol was characterized by HPLC, Triple Quadrupole LC/MS/MS, enzymatic digestion, and TLC analysis and was identified as 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate. We also provide evidence for a potential function(s) of this newly identified nuclear oxysterol in cholesterol catabolism.
Abbreviations: The abbreviations used are: CYP8B1, sterol 12α-hydroxylase; CYP27A1, cholesterol 27-hydroxylase; CMV, cytomegalovirus; CYP7A1, cytochrome P450 7α-hydroxylasc; FXR, farnesil X receptor; SRE, sterol regulatory element; SREBP, sterol regulatory binding protein; HMG-CoA, 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A; Q-RT-PCR, quantitative reverse transcription PCR.
Cell culture reagents and supplies were purchased from GIBCO BRL (Grand Island, N.Y.). [14C]Cholesterol and [3H] 25-Hydroxycholesterol were purchased from New England Nuclear (Boston, Mass.). [14C] 27-Hydroxycholesterol was prepared as previously described (13). Cyclodextrin was purchased from Cyclodextrin Technologies Development Inc. (Gainsville, Fla.). Silica gel thin-layer chromatography plates (LK6 D) were from Whatman (Clifton, N.J.). Silica gel 1B TLC sheets were purchased from VWR (Bridgeport, N.J.). All other reagents were from Sigma Chemical Co (St. Louis, Mo.), unless otherwise indicated.
Primary rat hepatocyte cultures, prepared as previously described (16), were plated on 150 mm tissue culture dishes (˜2.5×107 cells) in Williams' E medium containing dexamethasone (0.1 μM). Cells were maintained in the absence of thyroid hormone. Twenty-four hrs after plating, culture medium was removed, and 2.5 ml of fresh medium was added. Cells were then infected with recombinant adenovirus encoding either the StarD1 (Ad-CMV-StarD1) or the CYP7A1 (Ad-CMV-CYP7A1) cDNAs in front of the human cytomegalovirus promoter (CMV) or no cDNA, as a control virus. The viruses were allowed to incubate for at least 2 hrs in minimal culture medium with gentle shaking of the plates every 15 min. After 2 hrs of infection, unbound virus was removed, replaced with 20 ml of fresh medium, and 2.5 μCi of [14C]cholesterol was added. After 48 hrs, cells were then harvested and processed for nuclei isolation as described (17) with minor modification (FIG. 1). Briefly, cells were disrupted by Dounce homogenization in buffer A (10 mM HEPES-KOH at pH 7.6, 1.5 mM MgCl2, 10 mM KCl, 0.5 mM dithiothreitol, 1 mM sodium EDTA, 1 mM EGTA) and spun at 1,000×g for 10 min. The nuclear pellet was further fractionated by resuspension in 2.5 ml of a 1:1 mixture of buffer A and buffer B (2.4 M Sucrose, 15 mM KCl, 2 mM sodium EDTA, 0.15 mM spermine, 0.15 mM spermidine, 0.5 dithiothreitol) and centrifuged at 100,000×g for 1 hr at 4° C. through a 1 ml cushion of 3:7 mixture of buffer A and B. The washed nuclear pellet was resuspended in buffer A containing 0.5% (v/v) Nonidet P-40 and centrifuged at 1000×g for 10 min at 4° C. The supernatant is designated as nuclear attached membrane (fraction C) and the pellets as purified nuclei (fraction D).
The purified nuclei (Fraction D) were resuspended and digested by 2 mg/ml of DNase 1 in 50 mM of acetic buffer, pH 5.0, 10 mM MgCl2 at 37° C. for 2 hrs. After centrifugation at 10,000×g for 20 min, the supernatant was designed as inner nuclear membrane (fraction E). The pellets were further digested by 2 mg/ml of proteinase Kin phosphate buffered saline solution (PBS) at 50° C. for 16 hrs and the solution was designed as nuclear protease digests (fraction F). Total lipids in each fraction were extracted by adding 3.3 volumes of chloroform:methanol (1:1) and separated into two phases, methanol/water and chloroform phases as previously described (18). The counts of [14C]cholesterol derivatives in the methanol/water and chloroform phases were measured by liquid scintillation counting (LC 60001C, Beckman, Fullerton, Calif.).
The [14C]cholesterol/cholesterol derivatives in chloroform and methanol/water phases were examined by thin layer chromatograph (TLC) (E. Merck, Darmstadt, Germany) using different developing solvent systems: toluene:ethyl acetate (2:3, v/v) for the [14C]cholesterol/oxysterols in chloroform phase, and ethyl acetate:cyclohexane:acetic acid (92:28:12; v/v/v) for those in methanol/water phases. The [14C]cholesterol/cholesterol derivatives were visualized in Phosphorimager using Fuji imaging plates (Fuji film BAS-180011, Fuji Photo Film Co., LTD, Japan).
Total [14C]-cholesterol derivatives in chloroform phase were analyzed by HPLC on an Ultrasphere Silica column (5μ×4.6 mm×25 cm; Backman, USA) using HP Series 1100 solvent delivery system (Hewlett Packard, Japan) at 1.3 ml/min flow rate. The column was equilibrated and run in a solvent, Hexane:hopropanol:Glacial Acetic Acid (965:25:10, v/v/v), as the mobile phase. The effluents were collected every 0.5 min (0.4 ml per fraction) except as indicated. The counts of [14C]cholesterol/cholesterol derivatives were determined by Scintillation Counter. The column was calibrated with cholesterol, [3H]25-hydroxycholesterol, and [14C]27-hydroxycholesterol.
Reverse phase liquid chromatographic separation was performed on an HP series 1100 system (Agilent Technologies, Palo Alto, Calif.) and CTC FITS-PAL autosampler (Leap Technologies, Carrboro, N.C.). Separation was carried on a ThermoKeystone Aquasil C18 column (5 μm, 2.1 mm×100 mm). The mobile phase consisted of (A), 0.1% formic acid in water, and (B), 0.1% formic acid in acetonitrile. The 20 min gradient was as follows: 0-10.0 min, 10%-95% B linear; 10.0-15.0 min, 95% B; 1.5.0-15.1 min, 95%-10% B linear; 15.1-20.0 min, 10% B. The mass detector was an API 4000 (MDS Sciex, Toronto, Canada)
The elution stream (0.3 ml/min) from the HPLC apparatus was introduced into a MDS Sciex API 4000 Triple Quadrapole Mass Spectrometer with a Turbo IonSpray ionization (ESI) source for the analyses. The mass spectrometer was operated in negative ion modes and data were acquired using both fun scan mode as well as the product ion mode for MS/MS.
The sample was reconstituted into methanol:water (20:80, v/v). The solution containing the fraction of 11.50 min peak was infused into the LC/MS/MS system to optimize ESI-MS-MS parameters. The optimized parameters for Q1 full scan under the negative mode were: CUR: 10; GS1: 40; GS2: 40; TEM: 400; IS: −4500; DP: −150; EP: −10. The optimized parameters for the product scan of 481 under the negative mode were: CUR: 10; GS1: 40; GS2: 40; TEM: 400; IS: −4500; CAD: 5; DP: −150; EP: −10; CE: 50; CXP: −15.
Time course of bile acid synthesis: Time points for conversion of [14C]-cholesterol to [14C]-bile acids were carried out using P150 mm tissue culture dishes Aliquots (1/100) of media were collected in duplicate in a microfuge tube and kept frozen until analysis. A mini Folch extraction was carried out by adding 3 volume of methanol:chloroform (1:1) to the culture medium. The tubes were vigorously vortexed and centrifuged at 16,000 g for 6 min. The phases were collected separately and counted.
Primary rat hepatocytes were infected with an adenovirus encoding either StarD1 or CYP7A1 as explained in Experimental Procedures. Forty-eight hrs after infection, bile acid synthesis increased 4-fold and 7-fold respectively, as we previously reported (18). Cells infected with control virus have similar levels of bile acid synthesis as uninfected cells. To test whether overexpression of StarD1 affects the expression of EXR targeting genes following generation of the nuclear oxysterol, the regulation of CYP7A1 expression was investigated following StarD1 overexpression. CYP7A1 mRNA levels increased by 6-fold (n=3) at day 3 following StarD1 overexpression (FIG. 2).
The subcellular distribution of [14C]-cholesterol derivatives was monitored by adding exogenous [14C]cholesterol to the hepatocyte culture 2 hrs after infection and is summarized in Table 1. Approximately 50% of the total counts of [14C]cholesterol/cholesterol derivatives were found in nuclear-related fractions. The other 50% were located in other subcellular organelles including cytosol, plasma membranes, lysosomes, and mitochondria (Fractions A and 13). Only a small number of counts were detected in the inner membrane fraction (Fraction E). Interestingly, the total extractable [14C]cholesterol/cholesterol derivatives in nuclear debris from StarD1-infected cells was significantly (25%) higher than those of CYP7A1-infected or control nuclear extracts (Fraction F). TLC analysis of the chloroform-extractable cholesterol derivatives found in the nuclear fraction (Fraction D) in StarD1-infected hepatocytes showed four bands, which migrated like cholesterol ester, cholesterol, 25-hydroxycholesterol, and 27-hydroxycholesterol respectively (FIG. 3). Only cholesterol ester, cholesterol, and 27-OH cholesterol were detected in control-infected cells, with cholesterol ester and cholesterol in CYP7A1-infected cells. These results suggested that StarD1 overexpression increased translocation of cholesterol derivatives, 25-hydroxycholesterol, to the nucleus. The presence of 25-hydroxycholesterol in the nucleus following StarD1 overexpression has been confirmed by mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry (MS/MS) analysis (data not shown), 25-Hydroxycholesterol is a minor oxysterol that may be formed in different types of tissues by a specific enzyme that may not belong to the cytochrome P-450 family (19). Interestingly, cholesterol-derivatives in the methanol/water phase extracted from the nuclear debris were dramatically increased in the StarD1-overexpressing cells compared with control and CYP7A1-overexpressing cells (FIG. 4).
Distribution of [14C]cholesterol derivatives in primary rat
hepatocytes following StarD1 or CYP7A1 overexpression*.
Fraction A B C E F
Control 43 ± 2 23 ± 5 47 ± 3 1.0 ± 0.2 7 ± 3
StarD1 38 ± 8 3.1 ± 2 36 ± 6 1.7 ± 0.1 10 ± 2
CYP7 A1 43 ± 3 2.9 ± 4 49 ± 8 1.1 ± 0.2 8 ± 2
*[14C]Cholesterol was added at 2 hrs after adenovirus infection and cells were harvested 48 hrs later. Subcellular fractions were prepared as described under "Experimental Procedures". An aliquot from each fraction was taken for liquid scintillation counting. Values represent the mean of three experiments ± SD of the percentage of radioactivity found in each fraction with respect to the total radioactivity found in all fractions.
We then proceeded to analyze the composition of the cholesterol derivatives in the different subcellular fractions of StarD1 overexpressing hepatocytes. We first performed HPLC, analysis of [14C]cholesterol derivatives in the methanol/water phases from the nuclear and non-nuclear fractions. FIG. 5 showed the 195 nm profiles, which nonspecifically detected double bonds containing molecules, and the specific radioactivity incorporated in each fraction derived from the [14C]cholesterol that had been added to the cultures after infection. The 195 nm profiles were relatively similar in the nuclear fraction (Fraction D) from cells infected either with the StarD1, CYP7A1, or null recombinant viruses, except for an extra peak with retention time of 11.51 min, which was located between glycocholic acid (10.75 min) and taurochenodeoxycholic acid (12.50 min) (FIG. 5A). This 11.50 min peak was the only fraction that contained 14C-labelled cholesterol derivatives and was detectable only in StarD1 overexpressing cells (FIG. 5B). The non-nuclear fraction (Fraction A) from the StarD1 overexpressing cells contained two major [14C]cholesterol derivative peaks with retention times at 5 and 11.50 min. The 11.50 min peak was not detected in cells infected with either the control or the CYP7A1 viruses (FIG. 5C).
Further analysis of the cholesterol derivatives in the methanol/water phases extracted from mitochondrial, nuclear fractions, and culture media following overexpression of StarD1 protein showed that two [14C]cholesterol derivatives with retention times at 5.00 min and 11.5 min were found in mitochondria (FIGS. 6A and D). Furthermore, the 11.5 rain peak was present only in mitochondria and nuclei but not in the media (FIGS. 6B and E) suggesting that a cholesterol-derived molecule should be generated in mitochondria and translocated to the nucleus. The peak with retention time at 5.00 min. was found only in mitochondria and culture media, but not in the nucleus (FIGS. 6C and F) suggesting that the molecule presented in that peak was secreted from the cells. Therefore, the cholesterol derivative, with a retention time of 11.50 min in the HPLC system, which is generated in the mitochondria and translocates to the nucleus, is defined as a nuclear oxysterol, and the other as a secretory oxysterol.
To characterize the chemical structure of the nuclear oxysterol, we proceeded to purify it by HPLC using CIS and silica columns, and analyze it by enzymatic digestion, TLC, and HPLC analysis. First, to detect the potential presence of sulfate group(s) in the nuclear oxysterol molecule, the purified nuclear oxysterol was digested with sulfatase. The products were extracted with methanol/chloroform, separated by Folch partitioning, and characterized by HPLC and TLC analysis. Following sulfatase treatment, the nuclear oxysterol products were extracted into the chloroform phase from the methanol/water phase and show the same retention time as 25-hydroxycholesterol, but not 27-, no 24-hydroxycholesterol in our HPLC system (FIG. 7A-C), and the same relative mobility as 25-hydroxycholesterol on the TLC plate (FIG. 7D), suggesting that the nuclear oxysterol derivative is a sulfated 25-hydroxycholesterol.
To confirm the chemical structure of the nuclear oxysterol derivative, the purified nuclear sulfated oxysterol was further analyzed by LC/MS/MS Mass Spectrometry. After we performed LC/MS (Q1 full scan mode, 350 to 550 atomic mass units, amu) under negative ionization mode, a prominent peak was observed at a retention time of 10.75 min in a selected ion chromatogram of mass ion at m/z=4181 as shown in FIG. 8A. The Q1 full scan spectrum showed the peak at 10.75 min mainly contained molecule ions, m/z 480.1 and 481.5 (FIG. 88). Further analysis showed the molecule ion, m/z 480.1 did not contain a sulfate group on hydroxyl group (m/z 97) (data not shown). However, the molecule ion, m/z 481.5, corresponds to sulfate group 97 and cholesterol (MW 386). This molecule ion was further analyzed by LC/MS/MS (product scan of m/z 481) under negative ionization mode (FIG. 5C). The characteristic fragment ions were observed at ink=80(a), 97(b), 107, 123(c), 288, 465, and 59(d) in the product scan spectrum of m/z 481 (FIG. 8C). These observed fragment ions indicate that the nuclear oxysterol is a sulfated oxysterol with a sulfate group on 3-OH position (20) and a hydroxyl group on side chain, m/z 59, (molecular mass 482=80 (sulfate)+16 (O) 386 (cholesterol). Combined with data from HPLC, enzymatic digestion, and TLC analysis, the nuclear oxysterol derivative can be characterized as 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate (25-hydroxycholesterol 3-sulfate) as shown in (FIG. 5C).
StarD1 delivers cholesterol into the mitochondria and generates a novel nuclear sulfated oxysterol, 25-hydroxycholesterol 3-sulphate. This data suggests that a new pathway of cholesterol metabolism is responsible for generating this nuclear oxysterol. Our present report shows the presence of 25-hydroxycholesterol 3-sulfate in both the mitochondria and the nucleus but not in culture media, suggesting that 25-hydroxycholesterol 3-sulfate is generated in mitochondria and translocates exclusively to the nucleus. To biosynthesize this potent nuclear sterol regulator, two reactions should be involved: 25-hydroxylation and 3β-sulfation of cholesterol. It is not clear at this time whether 25-hydroxylation is catalyzed by CYP27A1 or 25-hydroxylase because 25-hydroxylase has not yet been identified in hepatocytes or in mitochondria, although it has been cloned (19). Since we did not see any cholesterol-3β-sulfate in the HPLC elution profile, we believe the first step is likely to be 25-hydroxylation of cholesterol catalyzed by 25-hydroxylase to form 25-hydroxycholesterol. Subsequently, sulfation of 25-hydroxycholesterol at the 313 position, is catalyzed by hydroxycholesterol sulfotransferases HST2(a, b), enzymes which have recently been cloned and identified (24;25). In addition, 25-hydroxycholesterol 3-sulfate may be glucuronidated for further catabolism and secretion via the bile as 24-hydroxycholesterol 3-sulfate (26). However, at the present time it is not clear that the [14C]-cholesterol derivative with a retention time of 5 min is the glucuronidation product of 25-hydroxycholesterol 3-sulfate (FIGS. 5 and 6).
Steroid sulfate conjugates may play an important role in the maintenance of cholesterol homeostasis. An interesting development in recent years has been the realization that steroid sulfoconjugates play important roles in well-characterized biological effects, such as serving as potent neuroexcitatory agents, which are distinct from the well-known role of unconjugated steroids as ligands for nuclear receptors to regulate gene expression (27). Several sulfated sterols have been reported to be widely distributed in steroidogenesis tissues (26) and to circulate in plasma at concentrations ranging from 328-924 μg/100 ml, with a blood production rate of 35-163 mg/day (28). A similar sulfated oxysterol derivative, 24-hydroxycholeterol 3-sulfate 24-glucuronide (based on MS/MS analysis) was reported to be in the serum and urine of children with severe cholestatic liver diseases (26). The 3-sulfate of 24-hydroxycholesterol is the major hydroxycholesterol sulfate found in meconium and infant feces (29;30), and is most likely excreted via bile. Bile excretion of this oxysterol would be impaired in cholestasis, leading to its increased concentration of 24-hydroxycholesterol 3-sulfate in hepatocytes and conceivably leading to its glucuronidation. However, where the compound came from and what function this oxysterol plays in the cholestatic liver is still a mystery. Although high levels of the double conjugate of 24-hydroxycholesterol are an indicator of grave liver disease, and can be used as a criterion for recommending liver transplantation, the physiological role and metabolism of this compound have never been identified. Sulfated sterols have been implicated in a wide variety of biological processes, e.g. regulation of cholesterol synthesis, sperm capacitation, thrombin and plasmin. activities, and activation of protein kinase C isozymes (24). Furthermore, sulfated sterols can serve as a substrate for adrenal and ovarian steroidogenesis (31;32), Sulfated sterols play an important, but unclear, role in the normal development and physiology of skin, where an epidermal sterol sulfate cycle has been described (24). The present results show that the nuclear extract containing the sulfated oxysterol and the purified nuclear sulfated oxysterol dramatically increased the rates of bile acid synthesis, strongly suggesting that the nuclear sulfated oxysterol may play an important role in cholesterol metabolism.
Activation of LXRs by oxysterols is believed to be responsible for regulation of the metabolism of several important lipids, including cholesterol and bile acids (33). The identification of an LXR response element in the promoter of the rat cholesterol CYP7A1 suggested that LXRs play an important role in the regulation of cholesterol homeostasis (34;35). LXRα-deficient mice (LXRα−/−) dysregulate the CYP7A1 gene and several other important lipid-associated genes (3). Studies utilizing these animals confirmed the essential function of LXRα as a major sensor of dietary cholesterol and an activator of the bile acid synthetic pathway in mice. The finding of authentic oxysterol ligands for LXRs is one of the most important investigative methods for developing new therapeutic methods for the prevention and treatment of hyperlipidemia and atherosclerosis. To date, there is still only indirect evidence of the important role of oxysterols, such as 24-, 25-, or 27-hydroxycholesterol, as authentic ligands in the normal regulation of cholesterol homeostasis.
Soluble and nuclear oxysterol-binding proteins with a high affinity for oxysterols exist, but the physiological ligands for these proteins have not yet been defined with certainty (36). The present report, with evidence showing that a potent regulatory nuclear sulfated oxysterol that is generated in the mitochondria translocates into the nucleus, provides a new clue regarding the role of oxysterol(s) in the regulation of intracellular cholesterol homeostasis. It is reasonable to hypothesize that the regulatory nuclear sulfated oxysterol generated in mitochondria translocates into nucleus, activates nuclear oxysterol receptor(s), and up-regulates bile acid synthesis. The nuclear sulfated oxysterol serves as a ligand of nuclear sterol receptor(s).
2. Hylemon, P. B., Gurley, E. C., Stravitz, R. T., Litz, J. S., Pandak, W. M., Chiang, J. Y., and Vlahcevie, Z. R. (1992) J. Biol. Chem. 267, 16866-16871
3. Chiang, J. Y., Kimmel, R., and Stroup, D. (2001.) Gene 262, 257-265
6. Szanto, A., Benko, S., Szatmari, I., Balint, B. B. L., Furtos, I., Ruhl, R., Molnar, S., Csiba, L., Garuti, R., Calandra, S., Larsson, H., Diezfalusy, U., and Nagy, L. (2004) Mol. Cell Biol. 24, 8154-8166
7. Dubrac, S., Lear, S. R., Ananthanarayanan, M., Balasubramaniyan, N., Bollineni, J., Slider, S., Hyogo, H., Cohen, D. E., Blanche, P. J., Krauss, R. M., Batta, A. K., Salen, G., Suchy, F. J., Maeda, N., and Erickson, S. K. (2005) J. Lipid Res. 46, 76-85
11. Ren, S. Hylemon, P. B., Marques, D., Gurley, E., Bodhan, P., Hall, E., Redford, K., Gil, G., and Pandak, W. M. (2004) Hepatology 40, 910-917
12. Hall, E. A., Ren. S., Hylemon, Rodriguez-Agudo, D., Redford, K., Marques, D., Kang, D., Gil, G., and Pandak, W. M. (2005) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1733, 111-119
46. Pandak, W. M., Bohdan, P., Franklund, C., Mallonee, D. H., Egizertsen, G., Bjorkhem, I., Gil, G., Vlahcevic, Z. R., and Hylemon, P. B. (2001) Gastroenterology 120, 1801-'1809
22. Lehmann, J. M., Kliewer, S. A. Moore, L. B., Smith-Oliver, T. A., Oliver, B. B., Su, J. L., Sundseth, S. S. Winegar, D. A., Blanchard, D. E., Spencer, T. A., and Willson, T. M. (1997) J. Biol. Chem. 272, 3137-3140
29. Montelius, J., Gustafsson, J. A., Ingelman-Sandberg, M., and Rydstrom, J. (1977) Biochim. Biophys. Acta 488, 502-511
Demonstration of Up-Regulation of LXR Targeting Gene Expression
Preliminary experiments have shown that the purified nuclear oxysterol up-regulates bile acid synthesis. To further investigate the mechanism of this activity, the effect of purified 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate on gene expression of LXR-targeted cholesterol transport proteins ABCA1, ABCG1, ABCG5, ABCG8, and LDLR was investigated. Purified nuclear sulfated oxysterol was added to primary hepatocytes in culture, and mRNA levels of the transport proteins were quantitated by real time RT-PCR. The primer sets and TagMan probes for detection of mRNA levels were purchased from AB Applied Biosystem (Foster City, Calif.) and the reactions were performed on an MJ Research DNA Engine Opticon instrument. The results are presented in FIG. 12 and show that the addition of purified nuclear oxysterol to primary hepatocytes in culture increased expression of ABCA1 (2-fold) and ABCG5 (1.6-fold), and ABCG8 (3 fold). The expression of ABCG1 is typically low in primary hepatocytes and did not change compared with control cells. The correlation of increased levels of the sulfated oxysterol in nuclei with increased levels of LXR tarizeting gene expression suggests that the nuclear oxysterol receptor, LXR, is activated by exposure to the sulfated oxysterol. These data do not rule out the activation of other nuclear receptor(s) as well.
Synthesis of 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate
A Nuclear Oxysterol, 25HC3S, Decreases Cholesterol Synthesis Via Inhibition of SREBP-1 Activation in Hepatocytes
The "acidic" pathway of bile acid biosynthesis is initiated by the mitochondrial enzyme sterol 27-hydroxylase (CYP27A1). Oxysterol intermediates of the "acidic" pathway such as 27-hydroxycholesterol. (27HC) and 25-hydroxycholesterol (25HC) have been shown to be regulators of cholesterol homeostasis (1;2). These oxysterols represent regulatory molecules for the expression of many other genes encoding enzymes involved in cholesterol biosynthesis and transport (3-5). In theory, increased CYP27A1 activity in peripheral tissues could both down-regulate cholesterol synthesis through generating regulatory oxysterols and the steroid response element binding proteins (SREBPs) pathway, and enhance the cellular efflux of cholesterol, i.e. its elimination, via liver oxysterol receptor, LXR. (6). However, the relationship between the CYP27A1 activity and intracellular cholesterol metabolism is unknown.
Previous reports showed that overexpression of the steroidogenic acute regulatory protein (StarD1), a protein which facilitates cholesterol transport into mitochondria, dramatically increases cholesterol catabolism to bile acids both in primary hepatocytes in culture and in vivo (7;8). These findings suggest that cholesterol delivery to the mitochondria, where the enzyme CYP27A1 is localized, is the rate-determining step for bile acid synthesis via the "acidic" pathway. Subsequently. StarD1 was detected in hepatocytes (9). Overexpression of StarD1 in vivo not only increases bile acid synthesis to the same level as overexpression of CYP7A1, but also produces a similar composition of bile acids in bile (8). As described in Examples 1-3, a novel oxysterol, 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulfate (25HC3S) was found and characterized in mitochondria and nuclei of primary hepatocytes following overexpression of StarD1. This oxysterol was also present in human liver nuclei (10). The results suggested that the oxysterol is synthesized in the mitochondria and tranlocated to the nuclei. Oxysteorls in nuclei should be able to play important roles in maintenance of intracellular cholesterol homeostasis. However, the function of this nuclear oxysterol, 25HC3S, remains unknown.
Materials: Cell culture reagents and supplies were purchased from GIBCO BRL (Grand Island, N.Y.); [14C]Cholesterol and [3H]25-hydroxycholesterol ([3H]25HC) from New England Nuclear (Boston, Mass.). [14C]27-OH Cholesterol was prepared as previously described (11). HepG2 cells were obtained from American Type Culture Collection (Rockville, Md.). Fetal bovine serum was obtained from Bio Whittaker (Walkersville, Md.). Tissue culture flasks were purchased from Costar Corp. (Cambridge, Mass.). The reagents for real time RT-PCR were from AB Applied Biosystem (Warrington WA1 4 SR, UK). The chemicals used in this research were obtained from Sigma Chemical Co. (St. Louis, Mo.) or Bio-Rad laboratories (Hercules, Calif.) unless otherwise specified. All solvents were obtained from Fisher (Fair Lawn, N.J.) unless otherwise indicated. The enhanced chemilluminescence (ECL) reagents were purchased from Amersham Biosciences (Piscataway, N.J.). The testosterone and 27HC were obtained from Research Plus Inc. (Bayonne, N.J.). LA6 20×20 cm thin layer chromatography (TLC) plates were purchased from Whatman Inc. (Clifton. NJ). Nylon membranes were purchased from Micron Separation Inc. (Westborough, Mass.).
Chemical synthesis of 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulfate
The synthesized compound was analyzed by a MDS Sciex ABI 4000 Triple Quadrapole Mass Spectrometer (MDS Sciex, Toronto, Canada) with a Turbo IonSpray ionization (ESE) source and the mass spectrometer was operated in negative ion modes and data were acquired using full scan mode as previously described (10).
Proton Nuclear Magnetic: Resonance Spectroscopy
After incubation of HepG2 cells with media containing 25HC3S for 6 hrs, cultures in 25-cm2 flasks were given 3 ml of the same fresh medium containing 5 μCi of the [1-14C]acetate. After 4 hr incubation at 37° C., the media were removed and the cells were washed twice with phosphate-saline buffer (PBS), harvested with rubber police as described, and collected in Eppendoff tubes. The cells were sedimented by centrifugation and the pellets were washed three times by resuspension and sedimentation. The pellets were resuspended in 0.3 ml of PBS. The total lipids were extracted and separated by adding 3 volume of chlorolom:methanol (v/v, 1:1). [14C]Cholesterol and 27-hydroxycholesterol was isolated into chloroform phase and separated on TLC (toluene:acetyl acetate, 2/3, v/v/). [1-14C]acetate derivatives were visualized by Image Reader, Fuji film BAS-1800
Total RNA was isolated from HepG2 cells using SV Total RNA Isolation Kit (Promega). Two μg of total. RNA was used for first-strand cDNA synthesis as recommended by manufacture (Invitrogen). Real-time PCR was performed using SYBR Green on ABI 7500 Fast. Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems). The final reaction mixture contained 5 ng of cDNA, 100 nM of each primer, 10 μl of 2×SYBR® Green PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems), and RNase-free water to complete the reaction mixture volume to 20 μl. All reactions were performed in triplicate. The PCR was carried out for 40 cycles at 95° C. for 15 s and 60° C. for 1 min. The fluorescence was read during the reaction, allowing a continuous monitoring of the amount of PCR product. The data was normalized to internal control-β-actin or GAPDH mRNA. The sequences of primers for HMG CoA reductase used in real-time PCR are ACCTTTCCAGAGCAAGCACATT (SEQ ID NO: 1) (Forward) and AGGACCTAAAATTGCCATTCCA (SEQ ID NO: 2) (Reverse).
Chemical synthesis of the nuclear oxysterol, 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-Sulfate To study the role that 25HC3S may play in cellular cholesterol homeostasis, this oxysterol was chemically synthesized. Using a modified triethylamine-sulfur trioxide complex protocol as described in Methods, the nuclear oxysterol was successfully synthesized as outlined in FIG. 12A. MS analysis of the synthesized compound shows the same molecular mass ion, m/z 481 as the "authentic" nuclear oxysterol (FIG. 12B). 1H NMR analysis shows that the proton resonance at C3 with multiple small (1.5 Hz) splits near 3.65 ppm in the spectrum of 25-OH cholesterol (starting material) (FIG. 12C) is shifted to 4.20 ppm in the product spectrum (FIG. 120) as indicated, which confirms that HSO3− group is added at the C3 position of 25-OH cholesterol. HPLC analysis shows the same retention time of the synthesized oxysterol as the authentic nuclear oxysterol (data not shown). Combined with the results from the MS analysis, it is concluded that the synthesized molecule is 5-cholesten-3β, 25-diol 3-sulphate (25:HC3S). The results also confirmed the structure of the nuclear oxysterol as previously reported (10 and Examples 1-3).
25H3S Inhibits Cholesterol Biosynthesis and Decreases Cholesterol Levels in Microsomal Fractions
To study the distribution of intracellular cholesterol following the addition of 25HC3S, microsomal, nuclear, and cytosol fractions were isolated and total lipids from each fraction were extracted with chloroform/methanol/water. The cholesterol concentration in each fraction was determined by HPLC after cholesterol oxidase treatment which converts sterols to 3-oxo-β4 derivatives. As shown in FIG. 14, 25HC3S significantly decreased cholesterol levels in the microsomal fraction (left panels) as well as 2514 (right panels) but not in cytosol and nuclear fractions (data not shown). The decreases in cholesterol concentration were dose dependent as indicated in FIG. 14. It was also observed that no 25HC could be detected in the fractions from cells treated with 25HC3S. In contrast, dose dependent levels of 25-hydroxycholeterol could be detected in the fractions treated with 25HC as shown in FIG. 14 (right panels). These results suggest that 25HC3S directly inhibits cholesterol biosynthesis and decreases cholesterol levels in microsomal fractions and not through its degradation to be 25HC.
To investigate how 25HC3S inhibits cholesterol biosynthesis, total mRNA were isolated from HepG2 cells following incubation in 10% FBS fresh media containing different concentrations of 25HC3S (FIG. 15A). The mRNA levels of HMG CoA reductase were determined by real time RT-PCR. As shown in FIG. 15A, there was concentration dependent decreases in HMG CoA reductase mRNA following the addition of 25HC3S to the cells in culture. The addition of 25HC3S to HepG2 cells also lead to a marked decrease in the levels of HMG CoA reductase protein (FIGS. 15C and D). Western blot analysis shows that 50% of its protein level was decreased in a concentration dependent following the addition of 25HC3S to culture media (FIGS. 15C and D).
To compare with 25HC, mRNA levels of HMG CoA reductase in 25HC or 25HC3S-treated HepG2 cells were analyzed by real time RT-PCR. Both of the compounds can inhibit HMG CoA reductase in a similar fashion as shown in FIG. 16A. To further distinguish whether 25HC3S inhibits HMG CoA reductase expression via lipids uptake in the culture media, HepG2 cells were incubated in media containing lipid-depleted serum for 2 hrs, which increases expression of HMG CoA reductase by four-fold as previously reported (15). Cells were incubated for another 6 hrs following the addition of 25HC3S. Real time RT-PCR analysis shows that 25HC3S still strongly inhibits HMG CoA reductase mRNA levels (FIG. 16B). Interestingly, 25HC shows much more potent inhibition of the reductase mRNA in lipid-depleted media as compared to cells cultured in medium containing FBS (FIGS. 16A and 5B). Under these conditions, 25HC is more potent inhibition than 25HC3S on HMG CoA reductase mRNA levels. The result of inhibition of HMG CoA reductase by 25HC is consistent with previous report (16;17). To confirm its physiological role that 25HC3S plays in the cholesterol biosynthesis, primary human hepatocytes (PHH) cultured in serum-free media were used. Surprisingly, 25110 did not significantly affect the levels of HMG CoA reductase mRNA (−15% at 25 mM). In contract, 25HC3S inhibited HMG CoA reductase mRNA at a similar level (−75%) as that in HepG2 cells (FIG. 16C). HPLC analysis showed that the increasing levels of 25HC in the cells are concentration dependent (FIG. 17A-E), indicating that 25HC can still enter to the cells under this culture condition as in FBS containing media. These results suggest that 25HC3S and 25HC inhibit HMG CoA reductase mRNA by different mechanisms.
It has been well documented that HMG CoA reductase gene expression is regulated by SREBP-1 and SREBP-2 (18). When SREBPs are activated, the cholesterol biosynthesis will increase (19). To study whether SREBP regulatory system is involved in the inhibition of HMG CoA reductase mRNA levels and inhibition of cholesterol biosynthesis by 25HC3S, total cellular protein was extracted from HepG2 cells treated with 25HC3S or 25HC at different concentration (FIG. 18). The precursor and mature forms of SREBPs were determined by Western blot analysis. As expected, the decreases of the mature forms of SREBP-1 and the increases of the precursor form of SREBP-1 following addition of 25HC3S and 25HC were dose dependent (FIGS. 18A and 7B). However, the mature form of SREBP-2 only slightly decreased (FIGS. 18A and 7B). It was observed that the activation of SREBP-1 was much more sensitive to the treatment with 25HC and 25HC3S than that of SREBP-2. The inhibition of SREBP-1 maturation fits the decrease in HMG CoA reductase mRNA, at 3 μM of 25HC or 12 μM of 25HC3S, 85% of the mRNA of HMG CoA reductase and SREBP1 was inhibited. To confirm the mechanism, HepG2 cells were incubated in media containing 50 μM of mevinolin and 0.5 μM of mevalonate. Under this condition. SREBPs and HMG CoA expressions are upregulated. Following the treatment with 25HC or 25HC3S, SREBPs activation in the cells was determined by Western blot as described above. As shown in FIGS. 18C and 8D, 25HC3S shows more potent inhibition on SREBP-1 activation than 25HC. Thus, the nuclear oxysterol, 25HC3S, is most likely to inhibit the activation of SREBP-1 and subsequently inhibits the expression HMG CoA reductase.
The current study shows that the chemically synthesized oxysterol, 25HC3S as well as 25HC, inhibits the cholesterol biosynthesis and the expression of the key enzyme, HMG CoA reductase. Unlike 25HC, 25HC3S inhibits this expression in primary human hepatocytes as well as HepG2. 25HC3S was found in the human liver nuclei and its levels were dramatically increased following overexpression of mitochondrial cholesterol delivery protein, StarD1, in primary rat hepatocytes, indicating that 25HC3S is most likely synthesized in the mitochondria and translocated to the nuclei for the regulation of gene expression involved in cholesterol homeostasis (10). The present results provided evidence that the oxysterol, 25HC3S, plays an important role in maintenance of the intracellular cholesterol homeostasis, and suggested that the StarD1 protein may serve as a sensor of intracellular cholesterol levels. When cholesterol levels are too high in the cells, StarD1 protein may deliver cholesterol to mitochondria where cholesterol is converted to be potent regulatory oxysterols such as 25HC, 27HC, and 25HC3S. Those oxysterols play important roles in maintenance of cholesterol homeostasis.
25HC3S and 25HC inhibit cholesterol synthesis by two different mechanisms, both involving the proteins that control sterol regulatory element-binding proteins (SREBPs), membrane-bound transcription factors that activate genes encoding enzymes of lipids biosynthesis. In sterol-depleted cells, SREBP cleavage-activating protein (SCAP) escorts its bound SREBP to the Golgi apparatus where the SREBP is processed sequentially by two membrane-embedded proteases. The NH2-terminal domain released by the process can enter the nucleus where it activates transcription of the gene encoding HMG CoA reductase and more than 30 other genes whose products are necessary for lipid synthesis (1.8). When 25HC is delivered to cells in ethanol or when cholesterol is delivered in LDL, SCAP becomes trapped in the ER. The bound-SREBP is no longer carried to the Golgi apparatus, and the NH2-terminal domain can not enter the nucleus (20). As a result, transcription of the lipid biosynthetic genes declines. Retention of the SCAP-SREBP complex in the ER is mediated by the sterol-induced binding of SCAP to Insigs (Insig-1 and Insig-2) in the ER membrane (20;21). When mixtures of cholesterol and 25HC are added to cultured cells, SCAP is induced to bind to risk; 1 and Insig-2, and thus can not transport SREBPs to the Golgi body (3) and to be activated. J. L. Goldstein laboratory provided evidence that cholesterol interacts with SCAP directly by inducing it to bind to Insigs, whereas 25HC works indirectly through a putative 25HC sensor protein that elicits SCAP Insig binding (3). However, what the 25HC sensor protein is unknown.
The present study showed that 25HC strongly inhibits HMG CoA reductase in the presence of the lipids depleted serum both in HepG2 (FIG. 18) (˜90%), similar inhibits as 25HS3S does in the presence of serum (˜70%), but weakly inhibits in PHH when the cells were cultured in serum free media (FIG. 178) (˜15%). These results suggest that PHH does not express 25-hydroxycholesteorl sensor protein(s) under this culture system. However, 25HC3S can inhibit the enzyme expression to similar levels either presence or absence of serum or lipids depleted serum in both hepG2 and PHH indicating that 25HC3S can directly regulate the gene expression. The major reason could be that 25HC3S is much more hydrophilic than 25-hydroxycholeterol and is water soluble, which makes the molecule freely self-transport after this molecule enters the cells.
The oxysterol, 25HC3S, inhibits the cholesterol biosynthesis through inhibiting the activation of SREBP-1 and SREBP-2, and subsequently inhibit the expression HMG CoA reductase in HepG2 cells and primary human hepatocytes. Based on the microarray data from transgenic and knockout mice, both SREBP-1 and SREBP-2 activation stimulate HMG CoA reductase by 30 folds and 38 folds, respectively (18). SREBP-1 also strongly stimulates fatty acid synthase but not SREBP-2 (1.8). However, it is not clear whether SREBP-1 and SREBP-2 are directly mediated by 25HC3S to regulate the expression regulation of the key enzyme, HMG CoA. Our results clearly show that 25HC3S as well as 25HC are much more potent in inhibiting SREBP-1 activation than SREBP-2. We believe that 25HC3S inhibits SREBP-1 activation and subsequently inhibits HMG CoA reductase resulting in the decline of cholesterol biosynthesis.
3. Adams C M, Reitz J, De Brabander J K, Feramisco J D, Li L, Brown M S et al. Cholesterol and 25-hydroxycholesterol inhibit activation of SREBPs by different mechanisms, both involving SCAP and J Biol Chem 2004; 279(50):52772-52780.
4. Bjorkhem I, Diczfalusy U. Oxysterols: friends, foes, or just fellow passengers? Arterioscler Thromb Vase Biol 2002; 22(5):734-742.
5. Corsini A, Verri D, Raiteri M, Quarato P, Paoletti R, Fumagalli R. Effects of 26-aminocholesterol, 27-hydroxycholesterol, and 25-hydroxycholesterol on proliferation and cholesterol homeostasis in arterial myocytes. Arterioscler Thromb Vase Biol 1995; 15(3):420-428.
6. Fu X, Menke J G, Chen Y, Zhou G, Macnaul K L, Wright S D et al. 27-hydroxycholesterol is an endogenous ligand for liver X receptor in cholesterol-loaded cells. J Biol Chem 2001; 276(421:38378-38387.
8, Ren S. Hylemon P B, Marques D, Gurley E, Bodhan P, Hall E et al. Overexpression of cholesterol transporter StAR increases in vivo rates of bile acid synthesis in the rat and mouse. Hepatology 2004; 40(4):910-917.
10. Ren S, Hylemon P, Zhang Z P, Rodriguez-Agudo D, Marques D, Li X et al. Identification of a novel sulfonated oxysterol, 5-cholesten-3beta, 25-diol 3-sulfonate, in hepatocyte nuclei and mitochondria. J Lipid Res 2006; 47(5):1081-1090.
12. Ren S, Scarsdale J N, Ariga T, Zhang Y, Klein R A, Hartmann R et al. O-acetylated gangliosides in bovine buttermilk. Characterization of 7-O-acetyl, 9-O-acetyl, and 7,9-di-O-acetyl GD3. J Biol Chem 1992; 267(18):12632-12638.
17. Sexton R C, Gupta A K, Panini S R, Rudney H. Progesterone stimulation of HMG-CoA reductase activity in cultured cells. Biochim Biophys Acta 1995; 1.255(3):320-332.
21. Yabe D. Xia Z P, Adams C M, Rawson R B. Three mutations in sterol-sensing domain of SCAP block interaction with insig and render SREBP cleavage insensitive to sterols. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 2002; 99(26):16672-16677.
In Vitro and In Vivo Testing of the Effect of the Nuclear Oxysterol 25HC3S on Triglyceride and Cholesterol Levels
Administration to female mice (20-25 g weight) were was by peritoneal injection once with or without 72 μg of the nuclear oxysterol in 1000 of 0.9% NaCl containing 3 μl of ethanol. Twelve hrs following the injection, blood was harvested for analysis of triglycerides and cholesterol. The results are presented in FIG. 20, which shows that injection of the nuclear oxysterol decreased triglycerides in serum by 40% (n=12, p<0.01) and decreased cholesterol levels by 15%. Further, injection of the nuclear oxysterol did not increase the activities of alkaline phosphotase, serum glutamate pyruvate transaminase (SGPT), and serum glutamic-oxaloacetic transaminase (SGOT) in sera suggesting that the nuclear oxysterol is non-toxic (data not shown).
25-Hydroxycholesterol-3-Sulfate (25HC3S) Activates PPARγ and Attenuates Inflammatory Responses in Human Macrophages
The nuclear orphan receptor PPARγ is particularly important in regulating inflammatory responses in macrophages. Activation of PPARγ represses key inflammatory response gene expressions. However, the regulation of PPARγ activation is obscure. Recently, a new cholesterol metabolite, 25-hydroxycholesterol-3-sulfate (25HC3S), was identified as a potent regulatory molecule of lipid metabolism. This Example explores the effect of 25HC3S and its precursor, 25-hydroxycholesterol (25HC) on PPARγ activation and inflammatory responses. Addition of 25HC3S to human macrophages markedly increased nuclear PPARγ, cytosol IκB, and decreased nuclear NFκB protein levels. PPARγ response element reporter gene assays showed that 25HC3S significantly increased luciferase activities. NFκB-dependent promoter reporter gene assays showed that 25HC3S suppressed TNFα-induced luciferase activities only when co-transfected with pCMX-PPARγ plasmid in H441 cells. In addition, 25HC3S decreased LPS-induced TNFα and IL-1β mRNA expressions and releases. In the PPARγ-specific siRNA transfected macrophages, 25HC3S failed to increase IκB and to suppress TNFα and IL-1β expression. In contrast to 25HC3S, its precursor 25HC, a known OCR ligand, decreased nuclear PPARγ, cytosol IκB, while increasing nuclear NFκB protein levels in the presence of LPS and TNFα. This demonstrates that 25HC3S acts in macrophages as a PPARγ activator, and suppresses inflammatory response via PPARγ/IκB/NFκB signaling pathway.
Cell culture reagents and supplies were purchased from GIBCO BRL (Grand Island, N.Y.); the reagents for real time RT-PCR were obtained from AB Applied Biosystems (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.). Antibodies against human PPARγ, IκB, and Lamin B were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology (Santa Cruz, Calif.). FuGENE HD transfection reagent was obtained from Roche Applied Science (Indianapolis, Ind.). Single Analyte ELISArray™ Kits were purchased from SupperArray (Frederick. MD). The Dual-Glo Luciferase Assay System and pGL3-NFκB-luc were purchased from Promega (Wisconsin, Wis.); PPAR agonist rosiglitazone and antagonist T0070907 were from New Cayman Chemical (Ann Arbor, Mich.). pGL3-PPAR response element (PPRE)-luciferase reporter containing three copies of PPRE from the promoter of rat acyl CoA oxidase, and the receptor expression plasmids pcDNAI-PPAR were from the University of Tennessee Health Science Center [30].
PPAR response elements (PPRE) binding activities were measured using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (PPAR transcription factor assay kit; Cayman Chemical, Ann Arbor, Md. The 96-well plate was preimmobilized with deoxyoligonucleoties containing PARE. THP-1 derived macrophages were treated with 25HC3S at indicated concentrations or rosiglitazone for 4 hrs. The cells were then rinsed and nuclear proteins were extracted according to the manufacturer's instructions. Total nuclear extract protein, 10 g from each sample, was added to the plate. The kit provided two negative as zero controls, one positive as maximal binding control, and one competitive as specific binding control (in the presence of dsDNA) were used in the assay. After incubating for 1 hr, the wells were washed and incubated with primary PPAR antibody which recognizes the accessible epitope on PPAR protein upon PPRE binding. The peroxidase-labeled second antibody was added and incubated for 1 hr. The reaction was stopped and absorbance was read at 450 nm in a spectrophotometer.
THP-1 derived macrophages were cultured on coverslips in six-well plates and treated with different concentrations of 25HC and 25HC3S for 4 hrs. The cells on coverslips were washed with PBS, fixed with 3.7% formaldehyde for 10 min at 4° C., and then rinsed three times with PBS at room temperature. They were then permeabilized with PBS containing 0.1% of TritonX-100 for 3 min and washed with PBS before blocking by incubation with 5% of normal goat serum in PBS overnight at 4° C. For interaction with primary antibodies, cells were incubated with 2.5% normal goat serum in PBS containing PPARγ antibody for 1 hr in an incubator. Cells were washed in PBS containing 0.05% of Tween 20 (3×10 min). The bound primary antibodies were visualized with Alexa Fluor 488 goat anti-mouse IgG. The minor groove of double stranded DNA as a nuclear marker was stained by DAPI. Afterwashing, coverslips were mounted on slides and viewed with a Zeiss USM 510 Meta confocal microscope. Scalebar=10 μm.
Total RNA was isolated from THP-1 derived macrophages following treatments for 6 hrs otherwise as indicated using SV Total RNA Isolation Kit (Promega, Wisconsin, Wis.), which includes DNase treatment. Two microgram of total RNA was used for first-strand cDNA synthesis as recommended by manufacturer (Invitrogen, Carlsbad, Calif.). Real-time RT-PCR was performed using SYBR Green as indicator on ABI 7500 Fast Real-Time PCR System (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.). The final reaction mixture contained 10 ng of cDNA. 100 nM of each primer. 10 μl of 2×SYBR® Green PCR Master Mix (Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.), and RNase-free water to complete the reaction mixture volume to 20 μl. All reactions were performed in triplicate. PCR was carried out for 40 cycles of 95° C. for 15 s and at for 1 min. The fluorescence was read during the reaction, allowing a continuous monitoring of the amount of PCR product. The data was normalized to internal control GAPDH. The sequences of primers are used as recommended at the website located at pga.mgh.harvard.edu/primerband, as shown in Table 2.
Name Nos. Forward Sequence Reverse Sequence
GAPDHR NM_002046 CAATGACCCCTTCATTGACC TTGATTTTGGAGGGATCTCG
IL-1β NM_000576 CACGATGCACCTGTACGATCA GTTGCTCCATATCCTGTCCCT
(SEQ ID NO: 5) (SEQ ID NO: 6
TNFα NM_000594 TCTTCTCGAACCCCGAGTGA CCTCTGATGGCACCACCAG
1κB NM_001278 GGCTTCGGGAACGTCTGTC TGGCATGGTTCAACTTCTTCAT
IL-8 NM_000584 ACTGAGAGTGATTGAGAGTGGAC AACCCTCTGCACCCAGTTTTC
pSilencer2.1-U6 neo siRNA expression vector and negative control for RNAi were purchased from Ambion, Inc. (Austin, Tex.). Three human PPARγ oligonucleotide sequences, GACTCAGCTCTACAATAAG (siRNA1, SEQ ID NO: 13), GCGATTCCTTCACTGATAC (siRNA2, SEQ ID NO: 14), and GCTTATCTATGACAGATGT (siRNA3, SEQ ID NO: 1.5), were selected as specific siRNAs to target human PPARγ. Synthetic sense and antisense oligonucleotides were annealed by incubated at 90° C. for 3 min and then at 37° C. for 1 hr. The double stranded oligonucleotides were cloned into the BamH I-Hind III sites of the pSilencer2.1-116 neo vector according manufacturer's protocol. The control RNA interference (RNAi) sequence was a randomly scrambled and was not found in the mouse, human, or rat genome databases. All of the constructs were confirmed by sequencing. THP-1 macrophages were transfected with a PPARγ siRNA or control RNAi using FugeneHD reagent according to the manufacturer's instructions (Roche Applied Science, Indianapolis, Ind.). After incubation for 4 hrs, the medium was changed with normal medium and compounds were added at appropriate concentrations as indicated. Cells were harvested after 48 hrs following the addition, and PPARγ protein levels were determined using western blot and mRNA levels of inflammatory response factors were measured by real time RT-PCR analysis.
Data are reported as mean±standard deviation (SD). Where indicated, data were subjected to t-test or ANOVA analysis and determined to be significantly different at p≦0.05.
25HC35S Administration Increases Nuclear PPARγ Levels in Macrophages
To examine the effect of 25HC3S and its precursor 25HC on PPARγ activation, total nuclear proteins were extracted and nuclear PPARγ levels were determined by western blot analysis. As shown in FIG. 21, addition of 25HC3S to the macrophages led to significant concentration- (FIG. 21A, upper panels) and time- (data not shown) dependent increases in nuclear PPARγ protein levels. To confirm the increasing 52 kDa band was PPARγ protein, an artificial PPARγ ligand, rosiglitazone, was used as positive control and a specific antagonist, T0070907, as negative control (FIG. 21B). As shown in FIG. 21A, 25HC3S and rosiglitazone substantially increased nuclear PPARγ levels (Lane R) while T0070907 decreased the level (Lane TT). In contrast, 25HC decreased PPARγ levels (middle figures of FIG. 21A). It was noticed that the increases or decreases in the nuclear PPARγ levels occurred only in the early stages, less than 4 hrs (data not shown). Summaries of the concentration-dependent increases or decreases after normalization to nuclear protein lamin are shown in the lower panel of FIG. 21A. These results suggest that 25HC3S functions as a PPARγ agonist and 25HC as an antagonist. To further confirm that 25HC3S binds with the same molecule as the artificial antagonist, a competitive assay was performed. In the presence of the antagonist T0070907, 25HC3S failed to increase the nuclear PPARγ levels to its maxima. However, the levels of inhibition could be partially reversed following increasing concentration of 25HC3S as shown in the top panel of FIG. 21B. In contrast, rosiglitazone increased nuclear PPARγ levels and the increased levels could be significantly inhibited by the presence of 25HC as shown in the middle panel of FIG. 21B. These results suggested that 25HC3S/T0070907 and 25HC/rosiglitazone are competitive and they bind with the same molecule, PPARγ. Real time RT-PCR analysis showed that neither 25HC nor 25HC3S was able to change PPARγ mRNA levels significantly (data not shown), suggesting these oxysterols have no effect on its transcriptional regulation.
Double immunofluorescence studies using DAN for the nuclear marker together with the PPARγ antibody showed that PPARγ proteins were widely distributed in the cytosols and nuclei of the macrophages (FIG. 27A-F): compared with DMSO, administration of 25HC3S increased the nuclear PPARγ fluorescence intensities; administration of the antagonist T0070907 decreased the intensity, and blunted 25HC3S stimulation. The results imply that 25HC3S increases PPARγ levels in the nuclei by increasing nuclear translocation.
To study the transcriptional activities of the nuclear extracts from 25HC3S-treated macrophages, PPARγ responsive elements (PPRE) immobilized ELISA and PPRE reporter gene assay were carried out as shown in FIG. 22. ELISA assay showed that addition of 25HC3S significantly increased the PPRE-binding activities of the nuclear extracts, which is concentration-dependent (p<0.01) (FIG. 22A). PPRE reporter gene assays were performed in H441 cells because our preliminary experiments showed that these cells had the best transfection efficiency and highest reciferase activities (data not shown). At 25 μM of 25HC3S, the activity reached to a similar levels as that induced by the PPARγ agonist rosiglitazone. In the presence of the antagonist T0070907, 25HC3S failed (p<0.01) to increase PPARγ reporter gene activities with co-overexpression of ACOX-PPRE reporter and PPARγ genes (FIG. 22B). Interestingly, in the presence of T0070907, the lower concentrations of rosiglitazone failed to stimulate the reporter gene activity (p<0.01) but the higher concentrations still could increase the activities as shown in FIG. 22C. The results suggested that 25HC3S activates PPARγ by binding with different motif and rosiglitazone binds with the same motif of the molecule as T0070907 or with different affinities. Addition of 25HC3S suppresses LPS-induced IL-1β and TNFα expressions and releases in macrophages. Addition of LPS substantially increased IL-1β mRNA levels by 55-fold and significantly increased TNFα by 2-fold as previously reported [32,33]. Addition of 25HC3S suppressed LPS-induced IL-1β mRNA levels by 2-fold while 25HC increased its levels by 2-fold (FIGS. 28A and B). However, both 25HC3S and 25HC repressed LPS-induced TNFα mRNA levels by two and four folds, respectively (FIGS. 28A and B). It was noticed that 25HC was significantly stronger than 25HC3S in suppressing LPS-induced TNFα expression (p<0.05). The suppressions of TL-1β and TNFα expression by 25HC3S could significantly be blunted in the presence of artificial PPARγ antagonist T0070907 (p<0.05) as shown in FIG. 22D. These results suggested that 25HC3S inhibits LPS-induced IL-1β and TNFα expression by PPARγ signaling pathway.
To confirm that the suppression of LPS-induced TNFα and IL-1β expression is PPARγ dependent, specific siRNAs were used to knock-down PPARγ. Following transfection of the recombinant plasmid encoding specific siRNAs for 48 hrs, about 45% of the cells were viable and harvested. About 90% of PPARγ protein levels were suppressed and their levels were not changed in the presence of 12 μM of 25HC3S as shown in FIG. 24A. Consistently, 25HC3S significantly increased IκB mRNA levels by 2.5 folds, and in the presence of TNFα, 25HC3S increased the levels by 6 folds, which can be abolished by PPARγ specific siRNA (FIG. 24B). As expected, LPS stimulated TNFα by 40 folds and IL-1β expression by 12 folds, and 12 μM of 25HC3S significantly suppressed LPS-induced TNFα (FIG. 24C), IL-1 (FIG. 24D), and NFκB (FIG. 24E) expression (p<0.05). However, in the siRNA-expressed cells, 25HC3S failed in suppressing these expressions (FIGS. 24C, 24D and 24E). These results suggest that the 25HC3S induces repression of nuclear NFκB levels and subsequently decreases TNFα and IL-1β expression through PPARγ induced IκB expression.
To further confirm that 25HC3S/25HC regulates inflammatory responses through IκB/NFκB signaling pathway, the effects of these two oxysterols on IκB expression were examined. When the macrophages were treated with 25HC3S, the expression IκB at protein and mRNA levels were significantly increased (FIGS. 25A and 25B). Western blot analysis showed that 25HC3S increased and 25HC decreased IκB protein levels (Upper panel of FIGS. 25A and 25B). When treated with 25HC, the mRNA level had no significantly changed (p>0.05 by ANOVA analysis) (FIG. 25C) but the protein levels were significantly concentration-dependent decreased (p<0.05 by ANOVA analysis) (Lower panel of FIGS. 25A and 25B), indicating 25HC increases IκB protein degradation. In the presence of TNFα, 25HC3S increased IκB protein levels more than those in the absence (Middle panel, FIGS. 25A and 25B), but in the presence of PPARγ antagonist T0070907, 25HC3S failed to increase its levels (data not shown). These results indicated that PPARγ/IκB/NFκB signaling pathway is involved in 25HC3S/25HC regulated inflammatory responses.
Previous reports show that 25HC and 25HC3S serve as ligands, agonist and antagonist, respectively of LXR nuclear receptor [21, 24]. In the present study, we have shown that 25HC3S, increases nuclear PPARγ, cytosol IκB, and decreases nuclear NF?B protein levels; increases PPARγ transcriptional activities and IκB expression; subsequently inhibits the TNFα and LPS-induced inflammatory factor expressions and releases in human TRP-1 derived macrophages. In contrast, its precursor 25HC, a known LXR ligand, basically has an opposite function. Thus, the present results provide strong evidence that 25HC and 25HC3S not only coordinately regulate lipid metabolism by LXR/SREBP-1 [21,24], but also inflammatory responses by PPARγ IκB/NFκB signaling pathway [46]. The role of oxysterols including 25HC in inflammation is controversial. The nuclear receptors LXR and PPARγ regulate inflammation in different ways and respond to distinct signaling pathways [3]. PPARs and LXRs both exert positive and negative control over the expression of a range of metabolic and inflammatory genes. Although LXRs as well as PPARγ can transrepress several inflammatory genes in a similar manner, comparative DNA-microarray studies have identified overlapping, but distinct, subsets of genes that are repressed by ligand binding [34-37]. Why these nuclear receptors use parallel molecular mechanisms to negatively regulate similar but distinct gene subsets in the same cell type remains an open and intriguing question [38, 39]. In our previous publication, we showed that 25HC is a potent agonist of LXR as others previously described, but 25HC3S is a potent antagonist [21]. In the present study we have shown that 25HC is a potent PPARγ antagonist and 25HC3S is a potent agonist. Thus, both of the oxysterols can regulate inflammatory responses but via two different pathways. 25HC can suppress inflammatory response via LXR signaling pathway but stimulate the response via PPARγ pathway: 25HC3S can suppress inflammatory response via PPARγ pathway but may interfere in a different direction by the LXR pathway. Several laboratories found that oxysterols including 25HC can activate LXRs, subsequently repress a set of inflammatory genes after LPS and cytokines stimulation [40, 41]. However, many other studies found that oxysterols including 25HC induce inflammation and oxidation in different kinds of cells. For example, 25HC substantially increased the IL-1β mRNA expression and secretion induced by LPS in human monocyte-derived macrophages. 25HC is also a potent inducer of MCP-1, MIP-1β and IL-8 secretion in vitro [41, 42]. 25HC treatments result in a significant increase in NFκB transcriptional activity, not only by affecting the IκB degradation and the translocation of p65/NFκB to the nucleus, but also by regulating the p65/NFκB transactivation [43]. Oxysterols also induce inflammation and oxidation through inducing slight mitochondrial dysfunctions and increasing reactive oxygen species (ROS) [43]. Previous study showed that PPARγ agonists increase LXR and ABCA1 mRNA levels following incubation with the agonists for 24 hrs [44]. It was assumed that PPARγ regulates inflammatory response through LXR pathway. However, if the cells were incubated with the agonists for short times (less than 6 his), the results were completely different [21]. Previous studies have shown that 25HC3S decreases LXR activities and its targeting gene expressions in macrophages. In contrast, LXR ligand, 25HC, increases nuclear LXR levels following short incubation time, subsequently increases LXR targeting gene expressions, inclusive of ABCA1/G1 and SREBP-1 mRNAs by 5-50-fold in 6 hrs. Furthermore, 25HC3S blocked the stimulation of target gene expressions induced by 25HC or artificial LXR agonist. It was concluded that 25HC3S activates PPARγ and modulates inflammatory response through PPARγ not LXR signaling pathway in the macrophages. The present studies provide a new clue of the role that oxysterols and oxysterol sulfation may play in inflammation regulation via activation/inactivation of the nuclear orphan receptors such as LXRs and PPARs.
Previous studies have shown that PPARγ suppresses target gene expression of NFB, nuclear factor of activated T cells (NEAT), activator protein-1 (AP-1), and signal transducers and activator of transcription (STATs) in response to a variety of inflammatory stimuli, including cytokines and TLR ligands [45]. The mechanisms involved in the repressive effects of PPARγ have yet to be elucidated. In the present study, it has been found that 25HC3S increases PPARγ and decreases NFB protein levels in nuclei (FIGS. 21 and 23); suppresses the expression of TNF-induced NFB dependent reporter gene. Which is PPARγ-dependent (FIG. 24); induces IB expression (FIG. 25); and inhibits IL-113 and TNFα expression (FIG. 22). It is possible that 25HC3S activates PPARγ, which induces IκB expression and inhibits IκB degradation by suppressing of TNF expression. IκB protein inhibits inflammatory responses by binding and inactivating NFB. Meanwhile, the activated PPARγ inhibits TNFα expression, which directly decreases IB ubiquitination and degradation. Thus, 25HC3S attenuates the inflammatory response by increasing IκB expression and decreasing IB ubiquitination and degradation through PPARγ/IB/NFB signaling pathway as shown in FIG. 26.
6. A. Chawla, W. A. Boisvert, C. H. Lee, B. A. Laffitte, Y. Barak, S. B. Joseph, L. Nagy, P. A. Edwards, L. K. Curtiss, R. M. Evans, and P. Tontonoz, A PPAR gamma-LXR-ABCA1 pathway in macrophages is involved in cholesterol efflux and atherogenesis, Mol. Cell 7 (2001) 161.
8. J. I. Odegaard, R. R. Ricardo-Gonzalez, M. H. Goforth, C. R. Morel, V. Subramanian, L. Mukundan, A. R. Eagle, D. Vats, F. Brombacher, A. W. Ferrante, and A. Chawla, Macrophage-specific PPARgamma controls alternative activation and improves insulin resistance, Nature 447 (2007)1116.
11. F. J. Schopfer, J. Zhang, B. A. Freeman, and Y. E. Chen, PPARgamma and its ligands: therapeutic implications in cardiovascular disease, Clin. Sci. (Lond) 116 (2009) 205.
14. C. Yu, L. Chen, H. Luo, S. Chen, F. Cheng, C. Gui, R. Zhang, J. Shen, K. Chen, H. Jiang, and X. Shen, Binding analyses between Human PPARgamma-LBD and ligands, Eur. J. Biochem. 271 (2004) 386.
18. W. M. Pandak, S. Ren, D. Marques, E. Hall, K. Redford, D. Mallonee, P. Bohdan, D. Heuman, G. Gil, and P. Hylemon, Transport of cholesterol into mitochondria is rate-limiting for bile acid synthesis via the alternative pathway in primary rat hepatocytes, S. Biol. Chem. 277 (2002) 48158.
20. S. Ren, P. Hylemon, Z. P. Zhang, D. Rodriguez-Agudo, D. Marques, X. Li, H. Zhou, G. Gil, and W. M. Pandak, identification of a novel sulfonated oxysterol, 5-cholesten-3beta, 25-diol 3-salfonate, in hepatocyte nuclei and mitochondria, J. Lipid Res. 47 (2006) 1081.
22. X. Li, W. M. Pandak, S. K. Erickson, Y. Ma, L. Yin, P. Hylemon, and S. Ren, Biosynthesis of the regulatory oxysterol, 5-cholesten-3{beta}, 25-diol 3-sulfate, in hepatocytes, J. Lipid Res. 48 (2007) 2587.
26. T. P. Erlinger, J. Charleston, and L. J. Appel, Inflammation modifies the effects of a reduced-fat low-cholesterol diet on lipids: results from the DASH-sodium trial. Circulation 108 (2003) 150.
28. K. A. von, M. Soller, and B. Brune, Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor gamma (PPAR gamma) and sepsis, Arch. Immunol. Ther. Exp. (Warsz.) 55 (2007) 19.
32. J. Q. Li, and L. C. He, Down-regulatory effect of usnic acid on nuclear factor-kappaB-dependent tumor necrosis factor-alpha and inducible nitric oxide synthase expression in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated macrophages RAW 264.7, Phytother. Res. (2008).
39. I. Bjorkhem and U. Diczfalusy, Oxysterols: friends, foes, or just fellow passengers?, Arterioscler. Thromb. Vase. Biol. 22 (2002) 734.
41. T. Rosklint, B. G. Ohlsson, O. Wiklund, K. Noren, and L. M. Hulten, Oxysterols induce interleukin-1 beta production in human macrophages, Eur. Clin. Invest 32 (2002) 35.
43. L. Calleros, M. Lasa, M. J. Toro, and A. Chiloeches, Low cell cholesterol levels increase NEkappaB activity through a p38 MAPK-dependent mechanism, Cell Signal. 18 (2006) 2292.
46. S. Ren, L. Xu, P. Hylemon, D. Heuman, W M. Pandak, 25-Hydroxycholesterol and 25-hyddoxycholesterol 3-sulfate reciprocally regulate lipid metabolism and inflammation in hepatoryetes and macrophages. The 60th Annual Meeting of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, Boston, Mass., Oct. 30-Nov. 3, (2009), Hepatology 55 (4) (2009)16.
VA Changes the Rules | PN Online
VA Changes the Rules
The Department of Veterans Affairs is publishing a proposed regulation in the Federal Register that would change its rules to add five diagnosable illnesses which are secondary to service-connected Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI)
The Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) proposes to add a new subsection to its adjudication regulation by revising 38 CFR 3.310 to state that if a Veteran who has a service-connected TBI also has one of the five illnesses, then the illness will be considered service connected as secondary to the TBI.
VA's decision is based on a report by the National Academy of Sciences, Institute of Medicine (IOM), "Gulf War and Health, Volume 7: Long-Term Consequences of TBI." In its report, the IOM's Committee on Gulf War and Health concluded that "sufficient evidence of a causal relationship" – the IOM's highest evidentiary standard – existed between moderate or severe levels of TBI and diagnosed unprovoked seizures. The IOM found "sufficient evidence of an association" between moderate or severe levels of TBI and Parkinsonism; dementias (which VA understands to include presenile dementia of the Alzheimer type and post-traumatic dementia); depression (which also was associated with mild TBI); and diseases of hormone deficiency that may result from hypothalamo-pituitary changes.
Specific information about the Defense and Veteran Brain Injury Center is available at http://www.dvbic.org/.
Pest Control Maraylya | 0410 452 014 | Back 2 New Cleaning Pest Control Maraylya | 0410 452 014 | Back 2 New Cleaning
Home » Our coverage areas » Pest Control NSW » Pest Control Maraylya
Pest Control Maraylya- Pest infestations can be a very serious problem affecting your health and well being. Pest can infest and infiltrate your homes, offices, schools and public spaces. It is important to make sure that you treat pest infestation as soon as possible. Ignoring pest infestation can expose you to many diseases and cause severe damages to your property as well. We at Back 2 New Cleaning believe in providing all kinds of pest control services in Maraylya round the clock. We provide one time solutions for all your pest infestation problems. We will treat the source of the infestation and prevent the pests from infesting again in future. We have certified, qualified and licensed team fo pest controllers who are the best in the industry. We offer pest inspection, pest treatment and pest control services at affordable costs across Maraylya. We are an experienced name when it comes to pest control and we will treat and remove any number of pests from your property within a day.
Local name in Maraylya
Back 2 New Cleaning is the best when it comes to Pest Control Maraylya
Specialised Equipment and tools for Pest Control Maraylya
Why Choose Back 2 New Cleaning For Pest Control Maraylya?
We at Back 2 New Cleaning believe in providing the best pest control services while keeping the costs affordable. we follow a no-compromise policy when it comes to the quality of service we deliver. Our professional pest controllers have years of training and experience in pest control. Equipped with the latest tools and equipment we can provide you with the most effective pest control service in Maraylya. To maintain the hygiene and quality of your home environment we always insist on using green and eco-friendly products. We also treat the pathogens and microbes left by the pests and also remove their nests and eggs. Hire Back 2 New Cleaning today and get rid of all pests from your property within a single day and that too at affordable costs.
By Tim June 7, 2019 at 1:57 am Category: Pest Control NSW
Mattress Cleaning Welsby August 25, 2019
Back 2 new Mattress Cleaning Welsby provide professional Mattress Sanitisation and Mattress Cleaning services in Welsby. Call us 0410 452 014 for FREE […]
Carpet Repair Yanakie October 8, 2019
Yanakie's Exceptional Carpet Repair Solutions Welcome to Back 2 New Cleaning – we deliver highest quality carpet repair Yanakie. […]
Pest Control Echuca West October 11, 2019
Pest Control Echuca West – Back 2 New Cleaning specializes in Spider Control, Ant Control, Bed Bug Control and almost […]
Tile and Grout Cleaning Taroon October 7, 2019
Tile and grout cleaning Taroon? Our experts at Back 2 New Cleaning offer the best tile grout cleaning solutions, meeting […]
Carpet Cleaning Cradoc June 11, 2019
Back2New Carpet Cleaning Cradoc offers the best carpet cleaning, carpet deodorisation, carpet stain removal & stain protection services at affordable […]
Pest Control Janefield October 9, 2019
Pest Control Janefield – Back 2 New Cleaning specializes in Spider Control, Ant Control, Bed Bug Control and almost all […]
Carpet Repair Grampians October 12, 2019
Grampians's Exceptional Carpet Repair Solutions Welcome to Back 2 New Cleaning – we deliver highest quality carpet repair Grampians. […]
Pest Control Batesford October 15, 2019
Pest Control Batesford – Back 2 New Cleaning specializes in Spider Control, Ant Control, Bed Bug Control and almost all […]
NCI Scientists Launch Spotlight on Molecular Profiling | National Institutes of Health (NIH)
Researchers at the National Cancer Institute (NCI), part of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), and their colleagues today introduced a new series of research articles, "Spotlight on Molecular Profiling," in the November 7, 2006, issue of Molecular Cancer Therapeutics*. The series will highlight molecular profiling studies that provide broad-spectrum genomic and proteomic data that could prove useful for the discovery of new drugs and biomarkers. The first article published in the series shows how such profiles can be used to discover a new biomarker that might someday help to personalize treatment of ovarian cancer. This study, as well as a commentary on molecular profiling, opens the series.
"Rather than forming a hypothesis about a specific gene or protein and designing experiments to test it, molecular profiling takes a more global approach to cancer research," said NCI Director John Niederhuber, M.D. "This technique surveys the expression of thousands of genes in a single experiment to map the changes in the human genetic blueprint associated with cancer. The molecular profiling approach will accelerate our understanding of the molecular basis of cancer and will lead to new insights for the treatment, detection, and prevention of these diseases."
Cancer is a term that encompasses at least 200 different diseases characterized by genetic changes that alter the normal, controlled growth and division of cells. If cancer research in the pre-genomic era — before the sequencing of the human genome — was a cottage industry dedicated to the study of individual molecules and processes, then the post-genomic era is an industrial revolution. This new age is defined by technological advances, such as microarray platforms, that allow for the global, simultaneous study of the 20,000 to 25,000 genes that make up the human genome.
This new series of articles will examine and compare genetic profiles of different cancer types toward the goal of developing tools to personalize anticancer strategies.
"The real value of molecular profiling will be realized when biomedical scientists with a particular expertise are able to integrate and use the data fluently for hypothesis generation, hypothesis-testing, and what I would term 'hypothesis-enrichment'," said John Weinstein, M.D., Ph.D., head of the Genomics and Bioinformatics Group at NCI.
In one of the inaugural articles in the Spotlight series, Weinstein and his colleagues used a panel of 60 human cancer cell lines, known as the NCI-60 panel, to analyze the actions of L-asparaginase (L-ASP), a bacterial enzyme that has been used since the 1970s to treat acute lymphoblastic leukemia. L-ASP scavenges the blood, chewing up molecules of free asparagine, one of 20 amino acids needed to build proteins in a cell. Normal cells can use the enzyme asparagine synthetase (ASNS) to make their own asparagine, but L-ASP selectively starves cancer cells that cannot produce enough of the amino acid for their own needs.
Since recent studies have suggested a link between L-ASP activity and ASNS, the NCI research team analyzed activation of the ASNS gene in the NCI-60 cancer cell lines, the most extensively-profiled set of cells in existence. Each cell line originated from a single cell type taken from a cancer patient and was then transformed in the lab to grow indefinitely outside the body. The NCI-60 panel of cells has been used by NCI's Developmental Therapeutics Program to screen more than 100,000 compounds for anti-cancer activity since 1990.
To examine this relationship, the researchers used microarray analysis, a powerful technology that measures activation levels for thousands of genes at once. In this study, five different microarray platforms used in the molecular profiling of the NCI-60 revealed a strong correlation between the anticancer activity of L-ASP and reduced activation of the ASNS gene in ovarian cell lines. Subsequently, the researchers and their collaborators used RNA interference, a recently developed genetic technique, to reduce the activation level of ASNS five-fold in one of those cell lines. As a result, L-ASP became over 500 times more effective at killing the cancer cells, suggesting that ASNS levels are the principal determinant of L-ASP activity. Furthermore, this increased activity was maintained in ovarian cancer cells that had developed classical multi-drug resistance to other forms of treatment.
"We are hopeful that the level of ASNS expression may one day be useful as a tool for selecting ovarian cancer patients who will most benefit from the use of L-ASP," said Philip Lorenzi, Ph.D., NCI, lead author of the study. "This study provides an example of what the NCI-60 cell line panel can do that is complementary to a different NCI-sponsored study, The Cancer Genome Atlas, which is profiling clinical tumors."
The Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) is a three-year, 100 million dollar collaborative pilot project launched in December 2005 by NCI and the National Human Genome Research Institute, also part of the NIH. TCGA aims to use tissue samples derived from cancer patients to systematically explore the universe of genomic changes involved in several types of human cancers. Cell lines, including the NCI-60, are different from the clinical tumors that will be the focus of TCGA. Cell lines are unlimited in number, easy to manipulate, and valuable for repeating experiments under the same conditions, but they do not necessarily reflect all of the properties of tumors found in patients.
"This emphasis on molecular profiling reflects a shift in research from small-scale to large-scale efforts, which are necessary because the genetic changes that lead to cancer occur in the context of whole genomes. Not all genetic changes are the same, not all cancers are the same, and they should not be treated as such," said Weinstein.
For more information on Dr. Weinstein's research and for a set of computer resources that include the databases and tools for integrating the data, go to http://ccr.cancer.gov/staff/staff.asp?profileid=5816
For more information on NCI's genomic approach to cancer research, go to
NCI's Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis provides the resources of the NCI-60 cell panel to interested researchers at http://dtp.nci.nih.gov/.
There unfortunately hasn’t been a great deal of modern studies on cleavers, which has been overshadowed by other herbs in recent years. However, laboratory research on the phytochemicals in cleavers has found out why it can help balance the immune system. All samples tested in one study were shown to aid the activation of certain immune cells, a necessary step in fighting infections, as the sooner an infection can be resolved, the sooner the inflammatory response can end.
Equine Schools | Equine Schools
Beauty - Advanced TrainingMassage TherapyEquineActingFashion Design Cosmetology Electrology Esthetics / SkincareHair Design / BarberingInstructor TrainingMakeupNail Technician / Hand & Foot TherapistHair Design / BarberingPermanent MakeupSpaAddictions WorkerAlternative MedicineAnimal StudyHydrotherapyCardio-Phlebotomy TechnicianCardiovascular Tech.ChiropracticClinical Medical AssistantConflict ResolutionCounselingDental Assisting Dental Hygienist Dialysis TechnicianEchocardiographer Electrocardiography EMS / ParamedicGerontologyHealth Care Admin. / Management Health Care ReimbursementHealth Information Tech. Health/Biomedical InformaticsHuman Services Insurance Billing / CodingLegal Nurse Consultant LPN to RN LPN/PN - Practical NursingMarriage & Family Therapy Masters of Science in NursingMedical Admin. & Mgmt. Medical Assisting Medical Billing and Coding Medical Clinical Specialist Medical Diagnostics Medical Laboratory Technician Medical Office Assistant Medical Radiography Medical Sonographer Medical Specialization Medical Specialization Mental Health Counseling NursingPhlebotomy Nursing - RN to BSN Nursing Assistant (CNA)Orthopedic Patient CarePharmacy Technician Physical Therapist PsychologyRadiology Rehabilitation Therapy AssistantRespiratory Care & Therapy Skin Care Sport-Exercise PsychologyAcupuncture Surgical Technology Ultrasound TechnologistVeterinaryAnesthesia Vocational Nursing (LVN)>Ophthalmic Tech.< X-Ray Technician Your Zip Code
: A Guide To Equine Schools * * * * * 1 vote
Complete programs in equine science usually last from two to three years. Students who enter these programs are generally trained in areas like horse anatomy, nutrition, reproduction, physiology, rehabilitation, welfare, and of course behavior. During the first year, students should expect multiple subjects on biochemistry, biology, immunology, and the like. Basic theoretical topics on equitation science like comparative anatomy, horse evolution, genetics, and domestication will also be taught.
What is good about equine schools is that most programs are designed to complement veterinary science courses. These means that graduates can conveniently continue their education to pursue a 4-year degree, a master's degree, or PhD.
During the second and third year, students will dwell on subjects that train their practical skills. Theoretical studies like veterinary anatomy, metabolism, biotechnology, microbiology, and nutrition will also be included. Students will be more hands-on in observing and examining actual horses' reproductive process and performing horse training.
Before students can get a diploma or certification, they must have taken specialized courses including equine therapy and rehabilitation, which concentrates on attending to horse diseases and disorders; equine selection and reproduction, which put emphasis on the processes of breeding different species of horses; equine nutrition; which as the term implies deals with food, drink, supplements, and other elements affecting the animal's dietary condition; and last but not the least sports horse performance, which trains students on different athletic games that employ horse-riding.
Students who obtain a diploma in equine science have a wide array of choices to build their career on. Contrary to popular perception, those who finish in equine school do not necessarily have to end up as equestrians and horse trainers. Because students are trained in different branches of biology, they can eventually practically work in companies that basically require a science degree. As mentioned, graduates also have the choice to continue a four-year degree related to veterinary sciences, or use the equine science program to satisfy their master in science or doctor of philosophy requirements.
Equine science graduates can get entry level jobs on companies looking for researchers and research assistants, clerks, laboratory staffers, and the like. Advancement is far and wide as they can become managers and officers in their respective companies and even proprietors of their own equine training schools and other related businesses like veterinary clinics, equine food manufacturing, horse diagnostic laboratories, and so on.
The future of equine school trained graduates is very promising. Today there is a growing global concern to live healthier lifestyles, and this no doubt is helping to revive people's interest in athletics, particularly in sports that celebrate nature like horse riding. In the following years the demand for equine science graduates is expected to grow high, and students who have passion in veterinary science should not miss the opportunity.
: Warning: include(random-posts.php) [function.include]: failed to open stream: No such file or directory in /home/equischl/public_html/wp-content/themes/schools/schools/single.php on line 124
Warning: include(random-posts.php) [function.include]: failed to open stream: No such file or directory in /home/equischl/public_html/wp-content/themes/schools/schools/single.php on line 124
Warning: include() [function.include]: Failed opening 'random-posts.php' for inclusion (include_path='.:/usr/lib/php:/usr/local/lib/php') in /home/equischl/public_html/wp-content/themes/schools/schools/single.php on line 124
Gastric Sleeve questions answered by board-certified surgeons | AriaMedTour
Gastric Sleeve Questions and Answers
The following Gastric Sleeve questions are asked by real people like you. The answers are provided by board-certified doctors or qualified medical providers who meet our exacting standards.
All/After Surgery/Before Surgery/General/Technical/
01: How long is my hospital stay for gastric sleeve?
Based on your case, you might stay in the hospital for 2-3 days after gastric sleeve surgery.
To understand more, read our blog post here: gastric sleeve surgery aftercare instructions.
02: How long does it take to recover from gastric sleeve?
You will recover from the surgery in about 3 to 5 days after the procedure. However, It might take longer to get back to work or return to your normal activities.
Click on this link to read more about tips for a fast recovery from gastric sleeve.
03: How long after gastric sleeve surgery can I return to physical activities and exercising?
You can get back to physical activities within 2 weeks after the surgery.
04: How long after gastric sleeve can I return to work?
Taking your doctor's instructions into consideration, you can get back to your "desk job" several days after the surgery. If you have a physically demanding job, it might take 2 weeks before you can get back to work.
05: How do I exercise after bariatric surgery?
In 48 hours after the surgery, you can start walking for longer periods. Within 2 weeks, you can do light exercises such as running short intervals, yoga, etc. For more strenuous exercises like weight-lifting and gym workouts, you should wait longer and increase your activity level gradually in 3 to 12 weeks. Also, you should ask your surgeon about swimming after surgery; and wait until your incisions are healed before getting into the water. You should also stick to a workout routine to maintain a good physical health and boost weight loss after surgery.
06: Is gastric sleeve painful? Is there a lot of pain after gastric sleeve surgery?
During surgery, you will be under anesthesia and won't experience any pain or discomfort. After the surgery, you shouldn't feel any intolerable pain that cannot be managed, as the surgery is done laparoscopically. That is, it is performed through a couple of 0.19-inch incisions.
07: How quickly will I start losing weight after gastric sleeve? How long after gastric sleeve do I stop losing weight?
A week after gastric sleeve surgery, you will start losing weight. Most of your weight will be lost in 12 months after the procedure. The final results can be observed 18 months after the surgery.
08: How much weight will I lose after gastric sleeve weight loss surgery?
09: What should I eat after gastric sleeve surgery?
After the surgery, you should consume clear liquids for about 1 to 2 weeks. We recommend that you frequently drink water, beef broth, clear soup, and milk during this period.
You should also avoid carbonated beverages or drinks that contain sugar and caffeine. From the third week forward, you can start having soft foods. That is, you can have pureed vegetables that are low in fiber as well as low-fat foods that are high in protein and cooked with minimum spices. Soup, popsicles, bananas, boiled eggs, cheese, and plain low-fat yogurt are allowed in this period. Starting from week 4, you can gradually add hard foods to your diet . Foods like boiled potatoes, chicken, fish, and cooked vegetables can return to your daily diet. It is important to note that, based on your case, your doctor will provide you with appropriate instructions regarding your diet to ensure an effective recovery.
To learn more, go to diet after weight loss surgery.
10: Can I get pregnant after gastric sleeve surgery?
After bariatric surgery, you can get pregnant once your weight is stabilized. Generally speaking, gastric sleeve surgery cannot cause problems for your future pregnancy in itself. We recommend that you undergo the surgery, and then get pregnant. You should, however, keep in mind that pregnancy during the course of weight loss after surgery can be dangerous as it can lead to malnutrition for both mother and the fetus. To prevent this, doctors recommend that women avoid pregnancy for 18 months after the surgery. Because immediately after the surgery, your body goes through surgical stress and nutritional changes that can hinder the baby's development .
For more information, go to 8 amazing benefits of weight loss surgery.
11: Why should I go through endoscopy and ultrasound tests before gastric sleeve surgery?
Before any weight loss surgery, a comprehensive assessment is required. Using endoscopy and ultrasound (sonography), the physician can make sure the body's internal organs are in a healthy state. These medical assessments help examine inside the stomach and diagnose or treat any ulcer or Helicobacter pylori before performing the surgery. Also, ultrasound imaging can reveal abnormal or thick gastric folds, a condition that can affect the patient's candidacy for gastric sleeve surgery. Therefore, it is for the best that you go through these medical assessments before traveling to a foreign country for bariatric surgery.
12: Is bariatric surgery safe for diabetics?
13: How long after gastric sleeve should I walk?
To lower the risk of blood clots, it is often required that the patient starts walking a few steps within 5 hours after gastric sleeve surgery. These walking sessions must be done frequently throughout the days following the surgery. Your activity level should increase overtime as you are recovering from the surgery.
14: How long should I stay at home after gastric sleeve surgery?
In most cases, the recovery after sleeve gastrectomy surgery does not involve bed rest. However, any activity, resting or diet program should be performed as instructed by your surgeon. You can walk for longer periods about 48 hours after the surgery; and in 3 to 5 days, you can return to your daily activities or spend time outdoors. Because the surgery is one with minimal recovery time, it is an easy procedure to do in a foreign country.
15: Is there any complications associated with the sleeve surgery?
Leak and bleeding after gastric sleeve are two rare, yet possible, complications of the surgery. Thanks to Iranian surgeons' use of suture technique on top of the staple line, the risk of such complications is close to zero. Other complications and side effects of VSG surgery such as malnutrition, blood clots, saggy skin, etc. are extremely rare; if these complications do occur, they can be easily controlled.
16: What is the success rate of gastric sleeve surgery?
The success rate of gastric sleeve surgery is more than 90% if you avoid snacking. By altering your life style in accordance with your surgeon's instructions, you can ensure that the surgery will be absolutely successful, helping you reach your desirable weight.
Read also: myths and facts about weight-loss surgery.
17: What are the symptoms of a leak after gastric sleeve? What should I do if it happens?
The symptoms of leak after gastric sleeve are rapid heart rate, shortness of breath, stomach pain, chest pain, pain in the shoulder area , dizziness, and fever. In case you experienced these signs, seek medical help immediately. To control the leakage, the healthcare provider will endoscopically place a stent in the area.In Iran, surgeons have developed a unique method to minimize the risk of leak after sleeve gastrectomy surgery.
18: Can I have gastric sleeve surgery if I have ulcers?
If you have any kind of stomach disease like peptic ulcers, you should treat the condition before undergoing bariatric surgery. Therefore, have your condition treated and then travel to Iran to undergo gastric sleeve surgery.
19: Will I have saggy skin after gastric sleeve?
Skin sagging after weight loss surgery is likely to occur; some patients might seek plastic surgery due to loose skin after bariatric surgery. Saggy skin happens as a result of losing too much weight in a very short time. If there is a large amount of loose skin, plastic surgery including procedures like abdominoplasty, breast lift, etc. will be performed. Certain exercises can also boost skin elasticity. Plastic surgery can be performed 12 to 18 months after VSG surgery and with the doctor's approval.
20: What is the mortality rate for gastric sleeve surgery?
Just as with almost any other surgical procedure, the mortality rate for gastric sleeve surgery is less than 0.5%. Generally, death after sleeve gastrectomy is a complication of the anesthesia rather than the surgery itself.
21: Does taking food supplements after gastric sleeve surgery increase my appetite?
You are required to take mineral and vitamin supplements for about six months after sleeve gastrectomy surgery. Regularly, these supplements increase the appetite. For gastric sleeve patients, however, the effects of surgery on reducing appetite outweighs that of food supplements.
22: How is the gastric sleeve surgery performed?
Sleeve gastrectomy is performed laparoscopically and through a few small incisions. During the surgery, about 80% of your original stomach is removed and pulled through the incisions using laparoscopic instruments. As a result, your stomach will become smaller, holding less amount of food than it used to. This way, your appetite, as well as your food intake, will significantly decrease.
In addition to helping you lose weight, gastric sleeve surgery can alleviate or eliminate the complications of obesity, including high blood pressure, sleep apnea, heart diseases, and high cholesterol. The surgery might also treat infertility in women.
For more information, please read things to know about gastric sleeve surgery.
23: Can I have gastric sleeve surgery if I have a hiatal hernia?
Sleeve gastrectomy surgery is not an ideal option for people with hiatal hernia because there is a high risk of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) after the surgery. If you have hiatal hernia, you can consider opting for gastric bypass surgery. Moreover, gastric bypass surgery can be performed in conjunction with surgical treatment for hiatal hernia. That being said, some cases can undergo gastric sleeve surgery without complications. You should provide results of both endoscopic and ultrasound tests so that the doctor can select the most appropriate procedure for you.
24: Can I fly after gastric sleeve surgery?
72 hours after gastric sleeve surgery, you can fly. Frequent walking sessions and drinking plenty of water is recommended while in the plane.
25: Can gastric sleeve surgery cause cancer?
It cannot. Stomach cancer usually occurs in the area where the cardia and oesophagus meet. During gastric sleeve surgery, this section won't be affected. In fact, weight loss surgery can help lower the risk of cancer as obesity is a major cancer risk factor.
26: Can I smoke or drink alcohol after gastric sleeve surgery?
Alcohol and Tobacco can hinder healing in the inner lining (gastric mucosa) of the stomach. Therefore, you should refrain from tobacco for 3 months and avoid drinking for 6 months after the surgery.
27: How long should I stay in Iran?
After gastric sleeve surgery, you should stay in Iran for about 7 to 9 days.
28: Is gastric sleeve surgery painful?
During the surgery you will be under general anesthesia so you will not be awake nor feel anything. In the first day, you might feel moderate pain at the incisions site but it can be managed using over-the-counter painkillers. It is common and normal to experience some discomfort during the following week. However, if you feel severe pain you should contact your doctor immediately.
Swedish Cancer Institute: Treatment for Mesothelioma, Seattle, Wash.
» Swedish Cancer Institute
1221 Madison St., Seattle, Washington 98104
Swedish Cancer Institute is a top cancer center in the Pacific Northwest. It's part of the Swedish Health Services network and welcomes people with malignant pleural mesothelioma.
Connect With Swedish Cancer Institute
Dr. Adam Bograd
More About Mesothelioma Treatment at Swedish Cancer Center
Swedish Cancer Institute, located in Seattle, Washington, has a program for mesothelioma treatment. The focus is pleural mesothelioma, with two thoracic surgeons as specialists for this rare cancer.
Dr. Adam Bograd is becoming the head of thoracic surgical oncology at the Swedish Cancer Institute. Another specialist at the center is Dr. Eric Vallieres. Both perform surgery for malignant pleural mesothelioma. They see around a dozen cases of mesothelioma each year. Approximately half are operable.
This cancer center is part of Swedish Health Services, which is at times referred to simply as "Swedish."
"My goal is to have a well-rounded program here. We're not going to open 50 trials but I want a well-rounded program that has care for any type of patient," Dr. Bograd said of the Swedish Cancer Institute, noting he wants to help both resectable and unresectable cases, provide neoadjuvant and adjuvant treatment, and ensure he and the team are considering all levels of care.
Dr. Adam Bograd, head of thoracic surgical oncology
Dr. Eric Vallieres, thoracic surgeon
Dr. Sara Grethlein, medical oncologist
Dr. Vivek Mehta, radiation oncologist
Swedish Medical Services
Get Connected to Swedish Cancer Institute
Patients can easily connect with the doctors at the Swedish Cancer Institute. This center is based in Seattle, Washington, which is located conveniently for anyone in the Pacific Northwest. Two specialists work at this hospital and can perform surgery.
Why Choose Swedish Cancer Institute?
Two specialists on staff for surgery consultations
Clinical trial with radiation after surgery
Multiple therapy options for unresectable cases
Protocol for Performing Surgery
Dr. Bograd is becoming the leader of the Swedish Cancer Institute's thoracic program. He's experienced in pleurectomy/decortication surgery and extrapleural pneumonectomy surgery. Extrapleural pneumonectomy removes a lung while pleurectomy/decortication does not.
He prefers extended pleurectomy/decortication for pleural mesothelioma. This operation removes the pleural lining, plus the diaphragm and pericardium if needed. The diaphragm is frequently removed, at least in part, while the pericardium can be spared for some cases.
"I don't remove something just to remove it," Dr. Bograd said. "I don't believe in that. You take out the disease that you see."
Testing IMRT After Surgery
Adjuvant treatment may include chemotherapy or immunotherapy. Swedish Cancer Institute is hosting an innovative clinical trial using radiation therapy after P/D surgery. Dr. Bograd said the cancer center has one patient already enrolled in the trial and might get a second one.
"You can't get a complete resection for mesothelioma," Dr. Bograd said, commenting on how even surgery doesn't cure the disease entirely. "You still have to find a way to sterilize the disease that's remaining."
This is where radiation therapy comes in. Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) can irradiate any tumors not removed from pleurectomy/decortication. Dr. Bograd and the Swedish Cancer Institute team use IMRT on the same side of the chest as P/D is performed.
Ranked as a top center in Seattle
Multiple systemic therapies offered
Belief in Immunotherapy
Dr. Bograd said immunotherapy is "where everything is going" for mesothelioma treatment — and care for other cancers.
"I think that's what the data shows," he said.
The Swedish Cancer Institute team doesn't operate on sarcomatoid histologies but will consider biphasic cases depending on the pathology report. If the pathology report notes the cancer has mostly epithelioid cells, then resection is the best option.
For sarcomatoid cases, immunotherapy seems like the best option. Dr. Bograd mentioned a recent study reporting a nearly double in survival average:
17 months with immunotherapy
9 months with chemotherapy
Importance of Finding a Specialist for Care
Dr. Bograd strongly believes in relying on a mesothelioma specialist for treatment. Many patients go to a local oncologist and don't receive the surgical consultation they should get. These oncologists, who aren't experienced with mesothelioma cases, aren't qualified to make decisions about treatment.
"I think there are a lot of cases where the patient isn't resectable, but there are also a lot where they could have surgery," Dr. Bograd said. "I think these patients should be referred to a specialist. I don't think they should have their treatment plan determined by someone who sees one case a year."
We can help you find the specialist you need for treatment. Our registered nurse, Karen Ritter, is a patient advocate for people affected by mesothelioma. She works with patients, families and doctors to provide avenues to medical care from the top mesothelioma cancer cancers.
She can put you in contact with the team at the Swedish Cancer Institute. Email Karen at karen@mesotheliomaguide.com. You can also request her recommendations for cancer centers by clicking the link and filling out the form with your diagnosis information.
Adam J. Bograd, M.D. Swedish. Retrieved from: https://schedule.swedish.org/directory/thoracic-surgery/1101-madison-street-419808-788140. Accessed: 10/28/2021.
Sara J. Grethlein, M.D., MBA, FACP. Swedish. Retrieved from: https://schedule.swedish.org/directory/hematology-oncology/1221-madison-street-1814792-787148. Accessed: 10/28/2021.
Eric Vallieres, M.D. Swedish. Retrieved from: https://schedule.swedish.org/directory/thoracic-surgery/1101-madison-street-157784-788140. Accessed: 10/28/2021.
Swedish Medical Center-Cherry Hill. U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved from: https://health.usnews.com/best-hospitals/area/wa/swedish-medical-center-cherry-hill-6910680. Accessed: 10/28/2021.
