Omega-3s are also associated with the treatment of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and cystic fibrosis, as well as reduced use of puffers in asthmatics who experience exercise-induced shortness of breath. Bouts of infection make breathing even more difficult for cystic fibrosis patients. Increasing omega-3 intake can increase the anti-inflammatory essential fatty acid content of the white blood cell membranes that lead the fight against such infections.
University of Minnesota Physicians specialists at the Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Clinic at University of Minnesota Medical Center, Fairview look forward to providing you with comprehensive, coordinated care for your rehabilitation needs.Learn more about our physicians' physicial medicine and rehabilitation expertise. Conditions we treatOur physicians provide care for many medical conditions including (but not limited to) the following:Accident related painAmputationsBack painBrain tumorsCerebral palsyDystoniaLupusLymphedemaMovement disordersMultiple sclerosisMuscle spasmsMusculoskeletal disordersNeck painOveruse syndromesPain managementParkinson's diseasePhysical medicine and rehabilitationRehabilitation, generalSpinal cord injurySpine painSports injuriesSpine interventionsSpine injectionSports medicine (non-operative)StrokeTraumatic brain injury
We offer a comprehensive array of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures and consultation including:Botulinum toxin injections for dystonias and spasticityIntrathecal Baclofen pump therapyTrigger point injectionsJoint injectionsRehabilitation evaluation, assessment and managementWheelchair assessmentsProsthetic and orthotic evaluation, assessment and managementGait evaluation, assessment and managementMobility evaluation, assessment and managementNeuropsychology evaluation and assessment of patients with learning disabilities, stroke, head trauma, brain tumors and dementia
University of Minnesota Medical Center, Fairview Phillips-Wangensteen Building 516 Delaware St. SE First Floor, Clinic 1A Minneapolis, MN 55455
Appointments: 612-672-7422Questions: 612-626-6688Nursing Lines: Baclofen Pump (Lori DesLauriers, RN): 612-626-3930General Rehab (Dawn Pepper, RN): 612-626-2837Movement Disorders (Tanya Baxter, PT): 612-626-3987
Immune reconstitution syndrome in a human immunodeficiency virus infected child due to giardiasis leading to shock Nandy S, Shah I - J Family Med Prim Care
Users Online: 9476
Year : 2015 | Volume : 4 | Issue : 4 | Page : 596-597
Pediatric HIV Clinic, B J Wadia Hospital for Children, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India
DOI: 10.4103/2249-4863.174302
Keywords: Giardiasis, human immunodeficiency virus, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome
Nandy S, Shah I. Immune reconstitution syndrome in a human immunodeficiency virus infected child due to giardiasis leading to shock. J Family Med Prim Care 2015;4:596-7
Nandy S, Shah I. Immune reconstitution syndrome in a human immunodeficiency virus infected child due to giardiasis leading to shock. J Family Med Prim Care [serial online] 2015 [cited 2021 May 8];4:596-7. Available from: https://www.jfmpc.com/text.asp?2015/4/4/596/174302
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome (IRIS) has emerged as an important early complication of antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation, associated with considerable morbidity and mortality. [1] In this condition, immune recovery following the ART initiation associates with a pathological inflammatory response, usually directed toward the microbial antigens. This was first noted following the introduction of zidovudine monotherapy in the early 1990s, when the localized forms of Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare infection were observed in association with the recovery rather than the failure of cellular immune responses. [2] Here, we present a 7-year-old HIV positive girl who developed IRIS as a complication of the initiation of ART.
A 7-year-old HIV infected girl presented with chronic diarrhea and hypocalcemic tetany (serum calcium = 5.6 mg/dl [normal = 8.5 to 11 mg/dl]). She was on trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP-SMX) prophylaxis. She had herpes zoster 2 years back. Both the parents were also HIV infected but not on ART. On examination, her weight was 12 kg, height was 103 cm, had generalized as nonsignificant lymphadenopathy with edema feet and pallor. On systemic examination, she had hepatosplenomegaly. Other systems were normal. Her mantoux test was negative; barium meal follow through was normal, and stool showed 20-25 pus cells/hpf. She was treated with intravenous (IV) ceftriaxone, metronidazole, nitazoxanide, and fluconazole to which she responded along with calcium supplements. Her CD 4 count was 158 cells/cumm with CD 4 :CD 8 of 0.22. She was started on ART consisting of stavudine, lamivudine, and nevirapine. After 1 month of ART, she was admitted with diarrhea. Stool showed the presence of giardiasis and budding yeast. She was treated with IV cefotaxime, amikacin, TMP-SMX, and required inotropes in the form of dopamine and dobutamine, and also prednisolone to which she responded. She was subsequently tapered off the steroids and were doing well.
Diarrhea in patients with acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) is significantly caused by intestinal parasites. [3] Giardia intestinalis is one such pathogenic intestinal parasite. Studies in adults have demonstrated that enteritis due to G. intestinalis is a frequent event among the AIDS patients, especially in the most advanced stage of the disease. [4] In a study of 75 HIV-infected adults in India, G. intestinalis was the most commonly isolated parasite, and patients with the lower CD4 cell counts presented with significantly more enteric disease and chronic diarrhea. [5]
IRIS has been reported in association with a number of diseases and inflammatory conditions. These include tuberculosis, herpes zoster (shingles), Cryptococcus neoformans, Kaposi's sarcoma, Pneumocystis pneumonia, hepatitis B virus, hepatitis C virus, herpes simplex virus, Histoplasma capsulatum, human papillomavirus, and Cytomegalovirus. [6] However, the immune reconstitution syndrome (IRS) has never been documented with a giardiasis or its treatment. [7]
Our patient was treated empirically with anti-bacterials such as ceftriaxone; anti-protozoal such as metronidazole and nitazoxanide; and anti-fungal agents such as fluconazole because the routine stool examination did not detect any particular organism and HIV-infected children are known to have polymicrobial infections. However, the post-ART, the preexisting infections which might have been partially treated or may have been subclinical was later unmasked by the patient's regained capacity to mount an inflammatory response. Giardiasis was then diagnosed from the stool sample where it showed up as the causative organism. The patient's symptoms, this time were more severe, and she went into sepsis for which she was given in inotropic support.
A low baseline CD4+ T cell count has also been documented as a major risk factor for the development of IRIS. [8] In a study conducted at a hospital in Mumbai, India, to evaluate incidence and risk factors for IRIS in 37 HIV-infected children, it was found that the patients with opportunistic infections before the antiretroviral treatment would have increased the incidence of IRIS. However, there was no correlation between the degree of immunosuppression and development of IRS. [9]
There may also be a genetic predisposition and certain genes have been associated with an increased susceptibility to the development of IRIS in the presence of mycobacteria and herpes viruses [10] which might have been the case with our patient who had a prior history of herpes zoster infection.
Therefore, this case highlights that giardiasis may also be considered as a cause of IRIS in patients with HIV infection.
Learning points from the case in family medicine and the primary care:
Always screen for IRIS in patients who present with infection post-ART
IRIS may be associated with unusual infections.
Müller M, Wandel S, Colebunders R, Attia S, Furrer H, Egger M; IeDEA Southern and Central Africa. Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome in patients starting antiretroviral therapy for HIV infection: A systematic review and meta-analysis. Lancet Infect Dis 2010;10:251-61.
CDC. Revision of the CDC surveillance case definition for acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. MMWR Surveill Summ 1987;36:1-15.
Bingham AK, Jarroll EL Jr, Meyer EA, Radulescu S. Giardia sp.: Physical factors of excystation in vitro, and excystation vs eosin exclusion as determinants of viability. Exp Parasitol 1979;47:284-91.
Rubbert A, Ostraowski M. Pathogenesis of HIV-1 infection. In: Kamps HR, editor. HIV Medicine. 3 rd ed. Paris: Flying Publishers; 2005. p. 59-63.
Guidelines for the Prevention and Treatment of Opportunistic Infections in HIV-Exposed and HIV-Infected Children. Available from: http://www.aidsinfo.nih.gov/guidelines/html/5/pediatric-oi-prevention-and-treatment-guidelines/402/giardiasis. [Last accessed on 2015 May 05].
Shah I. Immune reconstitution syndrome in HIV-1 infected children - A study from India. Indian J Pediatr 2011;78:540-3.
MC# 20-27 - A Phase Ib Study of ASP1951, a GITR Agonistic Antibody, as a Single Agent and in Combination with Pembrolizumab in Subjects with Advanced Solid Tumors
Agent(s): ASP1951
Disease Type(s): Cervical, Colorectal, Head and Neck, Melanoma, Lung-NSCLC
Molecular Target(s): GITR
ASP1951 binds to and activates GITR, which is expressed on the cell surface of multiple types of T lymphocytes. This induces both the activation and proliferation of tumor antigen-specific T-effector cells (Teffs), and suppresses the function of activated T-regulatory cells (Tregs), which may promote the elimination of tumor cells.
About the safety and tolerability of ASP1951 alone and in combination with pembrolizumab
How proteins that indicate the status of your disease are affected with use of ASP1951
If ASP1951 alone and in combination with pembrolizumab prevents or delays tumor growth or shrinks existing tumors
How quickly ASP1951 is removed from your blood after infusion
Institutional Review Board (IRB)-/Independent Ethics Committee (IEC)-approved written informed consent and privacy language as per national regulations (e.g., Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act Authorization for US sites) must be obtained from the subject prior to any study-related procedures (including withdrawal of prohibited medication, if applicable)
The subject is at least 18 years of age and legally an adult according to local regulation at the time of signing the informed consent form (ICF)
Subject in the escalation cohort has received all standard therapies (unless the therapy is contraindicated or intolerable) felt to provide clinical benefit in the opinion of the treating investigator for his/her specific tumor type OR
Subject in an expansion cohort has received at least 1 standard therapy for his/her specific tumor type
Subject has an ECOG Performance Status of 0, 1 or 2
Subject's last dose of prior antineoplastic therapy, including any immunotherapy, was 21 days or 5-half-lives, whichever is shorter, prior to initiation of study drug administration. A subject with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) or anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) mutation-positive NSCLC is allowed to remain on EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) or ALK inhibitor therapy until 4 days prior to the start of study drug administration.
Subject has completed any radiotherapy (including stereotactic radiosurgery) at least 2 weeks prior to study drug administration
Subject's AEs (excluding alopecia) from prior therapy have improved to grade 1 or baseline within 2 weeks prior to start of study treatment
Subject with mCRPC (positive bone scan and/or soft tissue disease documented by computed tomography [CT]/magnetic resonance imaging [MRI]) meets both of the following:
Subject has serum testosterone ≤ 50 ng/dL at Screening
≥ 1500/µL
≥ 100,000/µL
≤ institutional ULN, OR
eGFR* ≥ 45mL/min/1.73m2 if creatinine is > ULN
*Using the Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration (CKD-EPI) creatinine equation (2009); online calculator: https://www.kidney.org/professionals/kdoqi/gfr_calculator
≤ 1.5 x ULN; or
Direct bilirubin ≤ ULN and TBL < 3 x ULN (for subjects with Gilbert's syndrome)
ALT: alanine aminotransferase; ANC: absolute neutrophil count, AST: aspartate aminotransferase; CKD-EPI: Chronic Kidney Disease Epidemiology Collaboration; eGFR: estimated glomerular filtration rate; SGOT: serum glutamic oxaloacetic transaminase; SGPT: serum glutamic pyruvic transaminase; TBL: total bilirubin; ULN: upper limit of normal
A female subject is eligible to participate if she is not pregnant [see Appendix 12.3 Contraception Requirements] and at least 1 of the following conditions applies:
Not a woman of childbearing potential (WOCBP) as defined in [Appendix 12.3 Contraception Requirements] OR
WOCBP who agrees to follow the contraceptive guidance as defined inthroughout the treatment period and for at least 6 months after the final study drug administration
A male subject with female partner(s) of childbearing potential must agree to use contraception as detailed in [Appendix 12.3 Contraception Requirements] during the treatment period and for at least 6 months after the final study drug administration
Male subject must not donate sperm starting at screening and throughout the study treatment and for 6 months after the final study drug administration
Subject agrees not to participate in another interventional study while receiving study drug (Subjects who are currently in the Follow-up Period of an interventional clinical study are allowed)
Subject has at least 1 measurable lesion per RECIST 1.1. Lesions situated in a previously irradiated area are considered measurable if progression has been demonstrated in such lesions. Subjects with mCRPC who do not have measurable lesions must have at least 1 of the following:
Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) progression (defined as a minimum of 3 rising PSA levels with an interval of ≥ 1 week between each determination) within 6 weeks prior to study drug administration and a PSA value at the screening visit ≥ 2 ng/mL
Subject has SCCHN and a combination therapy expansion cohort is opened due to achieving the predicted efficacious exposure; or
Subject has NSCLC, SCCHN, colorectal cancer, melanoma or cervical cancer and RP2D combination therapy expansion cohorts are opened
Inclusion for re-treatment
Subject stopped initial treatment with ASP1951 or ASP1951 in combination with pembrolizumab after attaining an investigator-determined confirmed CR, PR or SD
Subject did not receive any prohibited anti-cancer treatment (see Section 5.1.5 Previous and Concomitant Treatment [Medication and Non-Medication Therapy]) since the last dose of ASP1951 or ASP1951 in combination with pembrolizumab
Subject has received investigational therapy (other than an investigational EGFR TKI in a subject with EGFR activating mutations or ALK inhibitor in a subject with an ALK mutation) within 21 days or 5 half-lives, whichever is shorter, prior to start of study drug
Subject requires or has received systemic steroid therapy or any other immuno- suppressive therapy within 14 days prior to study drug administration. Subjects using a physiologic replacement dose of hydrocortisone or its equivalent (defined as up to 30 mg per day of hydrocortisone, 2 mg per day of dexamethasone, or up to 10 mg per day of prednisone) are allowed.
Subject has an active autoimmune disease that has required systemic treatment in the past 2 years. Subjects with type 1 diabetes mellitus, endocrinopathies stably maintained on appropriate replacement therapy, and skin disorders (e.g., vitiligo, psoriasis, or alopecia) not requiring systemic treatment are allowed.
Subject was discontinued from prior immunomodulatory therapy due to a grade ≥ 3 toxicity that was mechanistically related (e.g., immune related) to the agent in the judgment of the investigator
Subject has known history of serious hypersensitivity reaction to a known ingredient of ASP1951 or pembrolizumab or severe hypersensitivity reaction to treatment with another monoclonal antibody
Subject with positive Hepatitis B virus (HBV) antibodies and surface antigen (indicating acute HBV or chronic HBV) or Hepatitis C ([HCV]; ribonucleic acid [RNA] detected by qualitative assay). Hepatitis C RNA testing is not required in subjects with negative Hepatitis C antibody testing. HBV antibodies are not required in subject with negative HBV surface antigen.
Subject has received prior treatment with an anti-GITR antibody
Subject has any condition which, in the investigator's opinion, makes the subject unsuitable for study participation
Described recently in the journal Nature, the structure shows in atomic detail how a two-headed compound derived from the active ingredient in Chang Shan works. Scientists have known that this compound, called halofuginone (a derivative of the febrifugine), can suppress parts of the immune system—but nobody knew exactly how.
"Our new results solved a mystery that has puzzled people about the mechanism of action of a medicine that has been used to treat fever from a malaria infection going back probably 2,000 years or more," said Paul Schimmel, who is the Ernest and Jean Hahn Professor and a member of The Skaggs Institute for Chemical Biology at TSRI. Schimmel led the research with TSRI postdoctoral fellow Huihao Zhou.
The article, "ATP-Directed Capture of Bioactive Herbal-Based Medicine on Human tRNA Synthetase," by Huihao Zhou, Litao Sun, Xiang-Lei Yang and Paul Schimmel was published in the journal Nature on December 23, 2012. For further information on the paper, see http://dx.doi.org/10.1038/nature11774.
A team from the Schimmel lab has determined a molecular structure that helps explain the effect of a Chinese herbal medicine called Chang Shan. (Image courtesy of the Schimmel lab.)
Gulftimes : 498 new cases of coronavirus in Qatar, 701 recoveries
Sat, 28 Nov, 2020|6:07 AM
Court dismisses Trump's claim that election was unfair Al Gannas competitions test preparedeness for upcoming major events
Saturday، 11 July 2020 02:35 PM
The Ministry of Public Health (MoPH) reported Saturday 498 new confirmed cases of coronavirus (Covid-19) and 701 recoveries in the last 24 hours, bringing the total number of people recovered from the disease in Qatar to 98,934.
Measures to tackle Covid-19 in Qatar have succeeded in flattening the curve and limiting the spread of the virus and the number of new daily cases and hospital admissions is continuing to decline each week, it said.
This is a result of 1) Qatar's young population 2) Proactive testing to identify cases early 3) Expanding hospital capacity, especially intensive care, to ensure all patients receive the medical care they need 4) Protecting the elderly and those with chronic diseases.
Even though restrictions are being lifted, and numbers are declining, this does not mean that the Covid-19 pandemic has ended in Qatar as every day between 50 and 100 people are admitted to hospital with moderate to severe Covid-19 symptoms.
"Unless we follow all precautionary measures we may experience a second wave of the virus and see numbers increasing there are already signs of this happening in other countries around the world," the health ministry said.
While Covid-19 restrictions are gradually being lifted in Qatar, it is important for all to play their role in controlling the virus by following precautionary measures: adherence to physical distancing, wearing a face mask and washing your hands regularly.
Anyone suffering from Covid-19 symptoms should either contact 16000 helpline or go directly to one of the designated health centres - Muaither, Rawdat Al Khail, Umm Slal, or Al Gharafa - for necessary checks.
Health Insurance: Reasonable and Customary Fees
Reasonable and customary fees are one of the ways that health insurers determine how much they'll pay for medical care.
A reasonable and customary fee is the amount of money that a particular health insurance company (or self-insured health plan) determines is the normal or acceptable range of payment for a specific health-related service or medical procedure. This article will explain how reasonable and customary amounts can affect the way your health plan covers a particular service.
Reasonable and customary fees vary from one insurer to another, and from one location to another. A reasonable and customary fee is also commonly referred to as a Usual fee, a Reasonable fee, and a Customary fee.
An insurer will look at the average fee that all the health providers in a given area are charging for a particular service, and will base the reasonable and customary fee on that amount. In general, the insurer won't pay more than the reasonable and customary fee for a particular service, regardless of how much the medical provider bills.
Managed Care Plans: Reasonable and Customary Fees Apply for Out-Of-Network Care
Almost all health plans these days are managed care plans (HMOs, PPOs, EPOs, or POS plans). In managed-care plans, as long as patients stay within the health plan's provider network, they don't need to worry about what amount is considered reasonable and customary. Instead, the insurance company will have negotiated a rate with the provider.
This negotiated rate is similar to a reasonable and customary rate, except that it varies from one provider to another, even within the same geographic area and for the same insurance company. That's because there are other factors involved in setting the negotiated rate, including things like the volume of business that the insurance company is expected to send to the provider and the provider's track record of successful outcomes.
When a patient in a managed care plan receives treatment from an in-network medical provider, the amount the patient has to pay is based on the negotiated rate and is limited by the amount of the deductible, copay, coinsurance, or out-of-pocket maximum.
But if the patient's plan covers out-of-network care (typically only POS plans and PPOs), the reasonable and customary fee will come into play when the patient goes outside the network. That's because the out-of-network provider hasn't signed any contracts with the insurance company, and so there's no negotiated rate.
Some Examples Help to Show How This Works
Dinesh has a high deductible health plan (HDHP) with a $5,000 deductible, a $7,300 maximum out-of-pocket (the highest allowable for an HDHP in 2022), and a PPO network. His health plan will only pay for preventive care before the deductible. He goes to an in-network doctor who charges $300 for the care that Dinesh receives. But Dinesh's health insurer and his doctor have already established a negotiated price of $220 for that service. So the doctor writes off the other $80 and Dinesh has to pay $220, which will count towards his deductible.
Now let's say that Dinesh has a large claim later in the year and meets his full deductible. At this point, his health plan starts to pay 80% of his in-network costs and 60% of his out-of-network costs (note that only his in-network out-of-pocket costs will count towards the additional $2,300 that he has to pay in order to reach his $7,300 maximum out-of-pocket; the plan likely has a higher out-of-pocket limit—or possibly no limit at all—for charges incurred outside the network).
Then he decides to see a doctor who isn't in his health plan's network. His insurer will pay 60%—but that doesn't mean they'll pay 60% of whatever the out-of-network doctor charges. Instead, they'll pay 60% of the reasonable and customary amount.
So if the doctor charges $500 but Dinesh's insurer determines that the reasonable and customary amount is only $350, his health plan will pay $210, which is 60% of $350. But the doctor still expects to get the full $500, since she hasn't signed a contract agreeing to a lower price. So after Dinesh's insurer pays $210, the doctor can bill Dinesh for the other $290 (this is called balance billing). Unlike the in-network doctor, who has to write off the amount of the charge above the network negotiated rate, an out-of-network provider is under no obligation to write off any amount above the reasonable and customary amount.
Note that a new federal law (the No Surprises Act) took effect in 2022, prohibiting "surprise balance billing" nationwide, with the exception of ground ambulance charges. Surprise balance billing occurs in emergency situations or when a patient goes to an in-network hospital but then receives treatment from an out-of-network provider while at the in-network facility. Some states had already taken action to prevent this on state-regulated plans prior to 2022. But the new federal law applies in every state, and also applies to self-insured plans, which are not regulated by the states.
Indemnity Plans: Reasonable and Customary Fees Apply, but Very Few People Have These Plans
According to the Kaiser Family Foundation's 2021 analysis of employer-sponsored health plans, only 1% of covered employees have traditional indemnity plans—almost everyone has managed care coverage instead (this has changed over the last several decades; indemnity insurance has fallen out of favor as health insurers turn to managed care in an effort to curtail costs and improve patient outcomes).
But traditional indemnity plans operate differently. They don't have provider networks, so there's no negotiated network pricing either. Enrollees can see any doctor they choose, and after the patient pays the deductible, the indemnity plan usually pays a certain percentage of the costs. But the indemnity plan pays a percentage of the reasonable and customary cost, rather than a percentage of the amount the medical provider bills. You can think of this as similar to the out-of-network scenario described above since every doctor is out-of-network with an indemnity plan.
As with out-of-network providers when patients have managed care plans, a patient with indemnity coverage is responsible for the doctor's charges above the amount that the insurance company pays. The medical provider is under no obligation to accept the reasonable and customary fees as payment in full and can send the patient a bill for whatever's leftover after the indemnity plan pays their portion. Patients can negotiate directly with the medical provider in this circumstance—some will reduce the total bill if the patient pays cash, for example, or will agree to set up a payment play.
Indemnity plans are more common for dental insurance than they are for health insurance, but most dental insurers now use managed care networks, and indemnity plans make up a small chunk of the total.
As with an indemnity health plan or out-of-network care on a PPO or POS health plan, dental indemnity coverage operates based on reasonable and customary fees. The plan will typically have a deductible, and will then pay a percentage of the reasonable and customary fee for a particular dental service. The patient will be responsible for paying the rest of the dentist's fee.
When Reasonable and Customary Fees Are Used, You May Have to Seek Reimbursement From Your Insurer
When your health plan is using reasonable and customary fees (as opposed to a network negotiated rate), it means that there's no network agreement between your health plan and the medical provider you're using.
This is either because you're going outside your plan's network or because you have an indemnity plan. Keep in mind that if you have a health plan that doesn't cover non-emergency out-of-network care at all, which is generally the case with HMOs and EPOs, you're going to have the pay the full bill if you go out-of-network. In that case, reasonable and customary fees won't be part of the equation, as your insurer won't be paying anything (with the exception of emergency care, and the surprise balance billing scenarios described above).
When the medical provider doesn't have an agreement with your insurer, they might not be willing to send the bill to your insurer. Instead, they may expect you to pay them in full (note that this will be whatever they charge—not the reasonable and customary fee) and then seek reimbursement from your insurance company.
The term "reasonable and customary" refers to the amount that a health insurance plan has determined to be reasonable for a particular medical service. If out-of-network care is received, the insurer will base their payment (if they cover out-of-network care) on the reasonable and customary fee, rather than the amount that the medical provider bills. This is important in terms of understanding how much the patient will ultimately have to pay for the treatment.
If you're receiving medical care with a provider who doesn't have a contractual agreement with your insurance company, make sure you understand in advance how the billing will work. If you're going to have to pay the full bill and then seek partial reimbursement from your insurer, the doctor may let you pay part of it up front and then wait to pay the rest until you receive the reimbursement from your insurer. But again, this is something you're going to want to sort out in advance so that you and your medical providers are on the same page.
healthinsurance.org. Reasonable and customary fees.
American Dental Association. Types of dental plans.
Appleby, Julie. NPR. Congress Acts to Spare Consumers From Costly Surprise Medical Bills. December 22, 2020.
866-889-3665	Eating Disorders: Recovery and Service
In Body Image, Eating Disorders, Mental Health, Recovery
/	Eating disorders can breed contempt or denial in those that don't understand them while feeding the silent devastation and fear in those who have them. This is an inherently challenging situation. Types of eating disorders vary but we are most familiar with Anorexia and Bulimia or a variation of the two. Still, there are some who suffer from disordered eating. I've heard it said that disordered eating is not an "actual eating disorder," but rather a "phase" of bad eating behaviors. However, the DSM and professionals in the field of addiction and mental illness have proven that not to be the case. For example, disordered eating has now earned the diagnostic term Eating Disorder Not Otherwise Specified or EDNOS.
Bookmark on Delicious Digg this post Recommend on Facebook Share on Linkedin share via Reddit Share with Stumblers Tweet about it Subscribe to the comments on this post Tell a friend Tags:adolescent eating disorderAnorexia nervosaBulimia nervosaChelsea RoffClaire MyskoEating Disorder Not Otherwise Specifiedeating disordersEDNOShealingMelanie KleinMental healthNEDANIMHProud2bMerecoverySanjay Guptateen eating disordersVoice in Recoveryyoung adult eating disorder	End of the Year: Mental Health Care
3 Comments	Jensy Scarola
December 20, 2012 at 2:43 am	Beautifully written! When you can be of service and share your story, you can change lives. Chelsea and others are great examples of that.
December 20, 2012 at 6:33 am	Thank you! I agree! I've always felt that learning to use our voice is the beginning of real healing. When we "name it," "it" loses its power. Service solidifies that.
Pingback: Eating Disorder Awareness Week: Stefanie Boone, MS, RD Shares Insight - Adolescent Drug Rehab | Teen Drug Treatment | Teen Alcohol Rehabilitation | California Adolescent Rehab Comments are closed.
profile-olivier-dutour
Welcome to my personal web pages. You will find here informations about my research interests, publications and ongoing research programs.
My main research interest in biological anthropology lies in skeletal and dental biology, bioarchaeology, forensic anthropology, origin of modern humans, paleopathology and paleoepidemiology.
I conduct research on: skeletal and dental growth and aging processes; the structure, health status, activities and behavior of past populations; prehistoric populations of North-western Africa; and on the evolution and paleoepidemiology of human specific infectious diseases.
I am interested in reconstructing the life conditions of past human populations by using a multidisciplinary approach that incorporates the study of morphology, histology, medical imaging, biochemistry, molecular biology, archaeology and history. This type of approach has been of particular interest to me in my studies of historical mass graves resulting from plague epidemics and Napoleonic campaigns.
The recent opportunity to work on Napoleonic mass graves in Russia allowed me to head the French team of a 4-year program with the Russian Academy of Sciences and CNRS (Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique = French National Center for Scientific Research) entitled "Anthropology and Archaeology of the Retreat from Russia". This project focuses on skeletal and dental variability, growth, health status, activity pattern, diseases, paleogenetics and paleomicrobiology. The project also examines aspects of military medicine and war surgery in the Great Army of Napoleon, interpreted from analyses of skeletal remains.
How to Restore Renal Function for Diabetic Nephropathy Patients-Diabetic Nephropathy
How to Restore Renal Function for Diabetic Nephropathy Patients
Firstly, Micro-Chinese Medicine is one kind of Traditional Chinese Medicine which is created through years' trials. It is composed of hundreds of natural herbs which are super-finely shattered. And then with the help of effective penetrant and osmosis devices, the effective medicines are permeated into kidney lesions by external application, thus achieving the goal of treating kidney disease. These effective medicines can directly reach to the damaged kidneys so that it can better work. Micro-Chinese Medicine can repair and rebuild your impaired kidneys through dilating blood vessels, fighting inflammation, preventing blood viscosity and degrading extracellular matrixes. As a result, the goal of restoring your kidneys is achieved.
Stem cells are unspecialized cells which have the ability to self-renew and differentiate into any type cells. Stem cells act as a repair system for the body, replenishing the adult tissues. They can be cultured artificially in the laboratory. These healthy stem cells can be infused into the body through the veins. Under right condition, these healthy stem cells can differentiate into kidney cells to restore the damaged cells. Stem cells transplant is a cell-based therapy which treats disease through regenerating new cells.
The combination of Micro-Chinese Medicine and Stem Cells Transplant can cooperate well to restore your kidneys. If you are interested in our new treatment, you can consult our experts online. We are glad to help you!
