Home > Medicine 2.0: Social Media, Mobile Apps, and Internet/Web 2.0 in Health, Medicine and Biomedical Research > Medicine 2.0'12 (Boston, USA) > Practice > Baumel
Radiology Toolbox Pro - An iOS (iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch) App for Radiology
Eric M. Baumel*, Softcode Systems, LLC, Wellington, FL, United States
Presentation Topic: Digital Learning
Building: Joseph B. Martin Conference Center at Harvard Medical School
Room: C-Rotunda Room
Date: 2012-09-16 09:45 AM – 10:30 AM
Radiology Toolbox Pro is an iOS App for radiology. An ectopic brain for practicing radiologists, residents, radiology technologists, students, and other health care practitioners, the app is available on the iPad, iPhone and iPod Touch.
Like all medical professionals, radiologists have to commit a large volume of information to memory. In most reading rooms there are photocopied quick references taped to the walls for easy recall of frequently used information. Even with the advent of ubiquitous internet access, it is still time consuming to search for a specific fact during the course of clinical work.
Radiology Toolbox Pro is a collection of tools; the charts, diagrams and calculators to be used in the radiology reading room, on call, and for general reference. In today's practice environment, even sub-specialists often find themselves covering for studies outside of their particular areas of expertise. Multi-platform mobile applications allow for convenient access to information, vital to the efficient use of time.
The app was created by a practicing radiologist for use in his own practice. The most frequently referred to tools, such as the Bosniak criteria for renal cysts, the Fleischner Society solitary pulmonary nodule recommendations, and eGFR calculator were included. The appropriate journal references are also provided.
Radiology Toolbox Pro allows for the user to submit suggestions for additional tools from within the app itself. As a work in progress, the feedback from the user base will help to determine what will be included in future updates.
The author wishes to disclose that he is a principal in the company which produces and markets the application.
Tecpara AC Tablet: View Uses, Side Effects, Price and Substitutes | 1mg
Home>Tecpara AC>tecpara ac tablet
Uses of Tecpara AC Tablet
Tecpara AC Tablet is used for pain relief.
Tecpara AC Tablet side effects
How to use Tecpara AC Tablet
How Tecpara AC Tablet works
Tecpara AC Tablet is a combination of two medicines: Aceclofenac and Paracetamol/Acetaminophen.	These medicines work by blocking the action of chemical messengers responsible for pain, fever and inflammation (redness and swelling).
Tecpara AC Tablet related warnings
Tecpara AC Tablet may be unsafe to use during pregnancy.
No information is available on the use of Tecpara AC Tablet during lactation. Please consult your doctor.
Tecpara AC Tablet may make you feel dizzy, drowsy or affect your vision. Do not drive until your vision is clear.
Tecpara AC Tablet should be used with caution in patients with kidney disease. Dose adjustment of Tecpara AC Tablet may be needed. Please consult your doctor.
Use of Tecpara AC Tablet is not recommended in patients with severe kidney disease.
Tecpara AC Tablet should be used with caution in patients with liver disease. Dose adjustment of Tecpara AC Tablet may be needed. Please consult your doctor.
However, the use of Tecpara AC Tablet is not recommended in patients with severe liver disease and active liver disease.
Avoid consuming alcohol when taking Tecpara AC Tablet as it may cause excessive drowsiness and increase the risk of liver damage.
Questions Related to Tecpara AC
Do you have any questions related to Tecpara AC Tablet?
Q. What is Tecpara AC?
Tecpara AC is a combination of two medicines: Aceclofenac and Paracetamol. This medication helps in relieving pain and inflammation. It works by lowering the levels of chemical substances in the body that cause pain and inflammation.
Q. Is it safe to use Tecpara AC?
Tecpara AC is safe for most of the patients. However, in some patients it may cause some unwanted common side effects like nausea, vomiting, stomach pain, heartburn, diarrhea and other uncommon and rare side effects.
Q. Can I stop taking Tecpara AC when my pain is relieved?
If you are using the medication for a condition associated with long-term pain then Tecpara AC should be continued for as long as advised by your physician. It can be discontinued if you are using it for short-term pain relief.
Q. Can the use of Tecpara AC cause nausea and vomiting?
Yes, the use of Tecpara AC can cause nausea and vomiting. Taking it with milk, food or with antacids can prevent nausea. Avoid taking fatty or fried foods along with this medication. In case of vomiting drink plenty of water or other fluids by taking small frequent sips. Talk to your doctor if vomiting persists and you notice signs of dehydration, like dark colored and strong-smelling urine and a low frequency of urination. Do not take any other medicine without speaking to your doctor.
Q. Can the use of Tecpara AC cause dizziness?
Yes, the use of Tecpara AC can cause dizziness (feeling faint, weak, unsteady or lightheaded) in some patients. If you feel dizzy or lightheaded, it is better to rest for sometime and resume once you feel better.
Q. Are there any specific contraindications associated with the use of Tecpara AC?
The use of Tecpara AC is considered to be harmful for patients with known allergy to any of the components or excipients of this medicine or in patients with known allergy to other painkillers (NSAIDs). It should preferably be avoided in patients with a history of stomach ulcers or in patients with active, recurrent stomach ulcer/bleeding. It should also be avoided in patients with a history of heart failure, high blood pressure, and liver or kidney disease.
Q. Can Tecpara AC be taken with vitamin B-complex?
Yes, Tecpara AC can be taken with vitamin B-complex preparations. While Tecpara AC helps to relieve pain, vitamin B-complex can help to correct the vitamin deficiency that might be causing the underlying painful condition.
Q. Is Tecpara AC helpful in relieving stomach pain?
No, Tecpara AC preferably should not be taken for stomach pain without consulting a physician. This drug can increase stomach acid secretion which may aggravate an unknown underlying condition.
Q. Can the use of Tecpara AC cause damage to kidneys?
Yes, the long-term use of Tecpara AC can cause damage to the kidneys. Normal kidneys produce a chemical messenger called prostaglandins that protects them from damage. Use of painkillers lowers the levels of prostaglandins in the body which leads to kidney damage on long-term use. Use of painkillers is not recommended to patients with underlying kidney disease.
Q. Is it safe to take a higher dose of Tecpara AC than recommended?
No, taking higher than the recommended dose of Tecpara AC can lead to increased chances of side effects like nausea, vomiting, heartburn, indigestion, diarrhea and can also damage your kidneys on long-term use. If you are experiencing increased severity of pain or if the pain is not relieved by the recommended doses of this medicine, please consult your doctor for re-evaluation.
Q. What are the instructions for storage and disposal of Tecpara AC?
Tecpara AC 100mg + 325mg usesTecpara AC side effectsTecpara AC 100mg + 325mg priceTecpara AC medicine used
Trial: Bladder Catheters Not Necessary in Afib Ablation Anymore - CRTonline
Trial: Bladder Catheters Not Necessary in Afib Ablation Anymore
As-needed use reduces painful, bloody urination
Getting rid of routine bladder catheterization improved outcomes for people undergoing atrial fibrillation (Afib) ablation, a single-center randomized trial showed.
Use on an as-needed basis, rather than routinely, reduced risk of cystitis, urethral injury, hematuria, dysuria, or urinary retention (56% vs 14%, P<0.001) -- driven by less hematuria and dysuria, according to Parin Patel, MD, of St. Vincent Hospital in Indianapolis, and colleagues reporting in JACC: Clinical Electrophysiology.
Independent predictors of that primary composite outcome were routine catheterization (adjusted OR 10.5, 95% CI 4.5-24) and male gender (adjusted OR 5.4, 95% CI 2.1-13).
"Placement of an indwelling urinary catheter is standard of care for longer surgical procedures, especially in cases of general anesthesia. However, in this study, we show that routine use of bladder catheters is unnecessary for Afib ablations and is associated with a higher risk of adverse outcomes," the authors concluded.
"Though some centers are starting to avoid routine catheterization, our study is the largest randomized controlled trial that provides data about the safety and efficacy of this strategy," they said. "By systematically changing the way we perform Afib ablation procedures, we can positively affect the long-term outcomes of our patients. This can result in significant cost savings to the health care system."
Bladder catheterization equipment alone costs $110 per kit at their institution, they said.
This was a single-center trial of 160 consecutive patients presenting for Afib ablation under general anesthesia at Patel's institution. All received pulmonary vein isolation, with nearly half receiving an additional arrhythmia ablation as well.
The average procedure lasted roughly 3 hours, which may be short enough for patients to go without needing an indwelling bladder catheter to relieve urine.
"Several technologic advances could explain our dramatically shorter procedure duration with almost 100 minutes saved compared to early reports of Afib ablation," according to the investigators, citing high-density mapping, irrigation-minimizing algorithms, higher power and shorter duration lesion sets, and improved laboratory workflow.
People were randomized to get a standard indwelling bladder catheter or only intermittent straight catheterization when bladder ultrasound performed every 4 hours post-procedure showed a residual volume over 400 mL.
The two study arms shared similar patient demographics. Mean age was 63 years, and one in three participants were women.
On subgroup analysis, men had a strong association with worse outcomes if they were randomized to bladder catheterization (OR 14.6, 95% CI 5.6-38.1). This was not a significant trend for women, however.
"Although subgroup analysis indicated no harm in female subjects, catheterization remained significantly associated with the primary outcome in the multivariable model even after adjusting for gender. The primary reason for the use of bladder catheterization is the concern about urinary retention and bladder/kidney injury, and our data shows no increased risk of urinary retention with omission of the bladder catheter even in prolonged complex cases," according to Patel's team.
Patients who did not get routine bladder catheters often wound up not needing one.
Three out of 80 received straight catheterization at the end of the procedure per operator preference and without bladder scans; an additional person was given an indwelling catheter in the middle of the procedure for better hemodynamic monitoring and a concern for baseline heart failure from filling pressures.
The single-center experience limits the generalizability of the results, however, according to Patel and colleagues. They noted exclusion of Afib patients with prostate or bladder cancer or recurrent cystitis, among others.
Patel disclosed no conflicts.
Source Reference: Ahmed AS, et al "Avoiding bladder catheters during atrial fibrillation ablation" JACC Clin Electrophysiol 2019
Read the original article on Medpage Today: Trial: Bladder Catheters Not Necessary in Afib Ablation Anymore
Practice Best For Review Sale Essay College
Read the case study below, then answer the questions that follow. Princeton Review offers a GED prep book which contains five practice exams and over 800 practice questions. 4. 6. Janice and the rest of the HSC are aware that WHS legislation, […]. We've put together some sample academic papers, written by our expert writers to show their skills and quality. This means Analysis Essay Thesis Generator University that a writer can use someone's work and justify their argument without the threat of having to be called. Evidence based practice is an integral part of nursing care. One good source of interest kept opening up Apr 18, 2016 · Writing the body of a college essay - Let professionals deliver their responsibilities: get the required task here and expect for the best score Spend a little time and money to receive the dissertation you could not even imagine Proposals, essays and research papers of best quality Take the practice Classic Learning Test (CLT), an alternative college entrance exam, to test your Reading, Writing, and Math skills before taking the big test for potential colleges and universities Jul 25, 2015 · Words: 2090 Length: 7 Pages Document Type: Essay Paper #: 22379424. Review of Skills ,Prosperity for all in the global economy world class. May 12, 2020 · 25 Great Ideas For A Nursing Capstone Project. Complaints indicate that runs down the best practice materials. In this week's video, we'll cover 10 tips for doing those things. And when you're actually sitting in the test, you want to use every tactic you've got to get the best result. Essay On Nursing In Nursing 896 Words | 4 Pages. Essays Santa Barbara
The below mentioned guidelines will help you in making your custom college essay papers more excellent Writing an essay often seems to be a dreaded task among students. Either way, the identification of methodological assumptions within structuralism and its execution. Client: "(Berlin, G.K., CA)". This is great if you're looking for a lot of GED practice, but they aren't quite as good Essay Of 1000 Words a resource as the official or Kaplan practice tests Best Practices for Collecting First-Destination Data. Complete guides about point view is here. Look at the most certainly notable of the reasoning. By (Name) Course. Get a step-by-step guide for the ACCUPLACER review. If you're searching for custom essay writing service, PapersOwl is the right choice. Order essays, term papers, research papers, or another assignment without having to worry about its originality - we offer 100% original content written completely from scratch 1000+ point view essay samples and outline template for students. Don't procrastinate. • Critical application of values and ethics and understanding of the complexities these present in practice What housekeeping practices should the HCS consider when assessing the currency of their workplace WHS systems?
How Great Was Alexander The Essay Conclusion Our staff analyzes the task and assigns a writer 13 College Essay Tips: Key Takeaways for a Great College Essay. They …. Ap Open Ended Essays These CBEST sample essays follow the template that's in our CBEST Writing Guide.Below each example is a short commentary which explains why it is an effective essay and why it would receive a high score It is the best practice to glean over abquenched the regular composition of this disquisition model. Take the practice Classic Learning Test (CLT), an alternative college entrance exam, to test your Reading, Writing, and Math skills before taking the big test for potential colleges and universities Best Practice & Research Clinical Endocrinology & Metabolism, 885–894. Top Essay Writing Reviews. View the complete College Composition Scoring and Mailing Dates. Not every individual is capable of writing an essay, which is why we offer you to take advantage from our affordable custom essay ….Martin's, 2010, 2007). Dec 01, 2016 · • Critical analysis of key processes – assessment, intervention and review within Adults and Children's Services • Critical application of social work theories and the evidence base for practice. …. It might seem a little premature to start worrying about your application essay, but since most colleges will feature online applications by the beginning of August, now's the time to hone your essay-writing skills Author: Jason Patel Jason Patel is the founder of Transizion, a college counseling and career services company that provides mentorship and consulting on college applications, college essays, resumes, cover letters, interviews, and finding jobs and internships.
Experts offer some recommendations Best practise vs Best fit It considers proper individuals resource management solutions in conditions of the command that they offer for reward techniques. A 1980 essay best creative ghostwriters services for university survey provides a summary has two advantages. How can you prepare for this important exam in the most efficient way? Date PART A: Critical Review. We help students succeed in high school and beyond by giving them resources for better grades, better test scores, and stronger college …. 5. When considering which position is totally clear what his project, his work, was about. We also take care of all the essentials of the current educational system. Share Print. 3283 words (13 pages) Essay in Management Watches and Jewelry and Selective Retailing. The Staff of The Princeton Review For more than 35 years, students and families have trusted The Princeton Review to help them get into their dream schools. The job may look hard at the start but the moment you start it you will find it interesting and will have pleasure in preparing custom college essay papers.
A 38-year-old woman visited to the clinic with a 2-weeks history of limited mouth opening. She also complained of pain in the left pre-auricular area that had begun 2 months prior. She had been managed with analgesics and physical therapy at a dental clinic, but symptoms had worsened after stopping the drug. She had no significant premorbid medical history except for a history of cellulitis on the right side of jaw area 2 years prior. She reported a habit of jaw clenching and sleep bruxism.
Her mouth opening was limited to 23 mm, and mandible deviated to the left side during mouth opening. She had pain on palpation of the left TMJ capsule and left masseter and temporalis muscles. Plain radiographs and cone-beam computed tomography showed flattening of the right mandibular condyle and erosive change in the cortical lining of the left mandibular condyle. An initial clinical diagnosis was made of anterior disc displacement without reduction and osteoarthritis of both TMJs, and myofascial pain of the masticatory muscles.
Although no fever or edema was observed in the clinical examination, she complained of swelling in her left jaw and was considered a previous history of cellulitis. A laboratory test, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan was performed to rule out infectious disease. Her laboratory data included a total white blood cell count (WBC) of 11,920 cells/μL with 76.2% segmented neutrophils, the erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) of 94 mm/h and the C-reactive protein (CRP) of 13.31 mg/dL. TMJ MRI revealed an anterior disc displacement on bilateral TMJs, and hyperintense T2 signal of the left masticatory muscles (masseter, temporalis, medial pterygoid, and lateral pterygoid muscles), which led to a final diagnosis of infectious myositis of the left masticatory muscle (Fig. 1). However, no obvious route of infection had been identified in the clinical examination or MRI.
She was hospitalized and received intravenous antibiotic therapy. At discharge, the laboratory data, including CRP level, had returned to normal range, and symptoms had relieved. However, she repeated the pain and swelling of the left jaw several times after discharge. Since management for degenerative osteoarthritis was also required, she had undergone conservative treatment of the temporomandibular disorder, including moist hot packs, exercise, stabilization splint therapy, and long-term non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) administration. After that, the symptoms recovered and worsened repeatedly, and finally recovered to normal after 12 months.
A healthy, 33-year-old man visited to the clinic with pain on the right TMJ and limited mouth opening that had begun suddenly 2 months prior. He had undergone physical therapy and stabilization splint therapy at a dental clinic for 2 months without relief, and his symptoms had worsened. He reported that the pain worsened in the morning after sleeping and waking up. He had no significant premorbid medical history.
On his first visit, he couldn’t open his mouth more than 23 mm. He had pain on palpation of both TMJ capsule and right temporalis muscle. Plain radiographs showed no bony change on either condyle. No sign of swelling or local heat was exhibited. An initial clinical diagnosis was made of ADD without reduction of TMJ and myositis of the temporalis muscles.
Less than 4 days later, the patient presented to the clinic reporting chills and markedly increased pain on the right facial area. Physical examination revealed a swollen and indurated region in the right buccal cheek to temporal area. Laboratory data included WBC of 11,880 cells/μL, absolute neutrophil count (ANC) of 8,233 cells/μL, and ESR of 58 mm/h. He was given oral antibiotics for possible cellulitis of the right masticatory muscle, and TMJ MRI was performed.
[Review]: Compliance Bar Plugin - WordPress Plugin For Website Compliance
Home Product Reviews [Review]: Compliance Bar Plugin – WordPress Plugin For Website Compliance
admin Aug 16, 2015 comments off
Your internet presence needs to comply with a wide range of federal, state and even local laws, many of which you are probably not even aware of.
Being non-compliant puts you at risk of suffering both financial losses and the cost to your reputation. Why risk your money and your business reputation, when you can protect yourself so inexpensively? In this article, we look at a simple and easy-to-use solution for WordPress users that can help make your site fully compliant just minutes.
As the digital realm continues to grow at breakneck speed and the rules of the game constantly change, it's important to stay on top of what's happening and to make sure that your website or blog remains legal, especially if your digital presence is an essential part of your business strategy.
Without legal pages on your website (e.g. terms of service, privacy policy, legal disclaimers, etc.), many third-party sites like Google won't let you advertise, sites like ClickBank will not allow you to list your digital products for sale, PayPal could close down your account and freeze your funds, Facebook and other social sites will suspend your apps, and you won't be accepted into various other advertising and merchant networks.
At the very least, if your website is not compliant, expect visitor trust and confidence in your business to be irrepairably affected.
(In addition to legal and regulatory compliance, most 3rd-party websites require you to comply with their terms of use!)
Your website may be subject to certain legal requirements in accordance with mandatory laws that govern your business,
How important it is to remain compliant with the terms of service of third-party providers whose products or services you may be offering or endorsing in your website, and
There are solutions that can help your site become compliant, such as the solution that we review below.
In this article, you will learn about a simple WordPress plugin that provides a total compliance and disclaimer solution for your digital business.
Below are just a few of the benefits and advantages of using Compliance Bar to make your web site instantly legally compliant:
Fast And Easy To Install And Configure. Be Up And Running In Minutes.
Compliance Bar Plugin is really easy to install. Just upload it to your Plugin folder via your WordPress dashboard and activate.
You can easily make changes to the prebuilt templates inside the plugin from the settings menu using the WordPress WYSIWYG content editor.
The plugin develop provides dedicated plugin support to assist you.
Customized Compliance Page Templates: Compliance Bar will create your legal pages in seconds and customizes them to your business and website.
Video Training Library: Compliance Bar is not difficult to use and an entire library of training videos is available.
Use In All Countries: As long as you consult a qualified legal representative to ascertain if the built-in templates provided with Compliance Bar are suitable and satisfactory for your business, country and website, you can use the plugin wherever you are located.
Can Be Used For All Website Purposes: If your website or blog is driven by WordPress, you can use the plugin for all kinds of websites. Select only the types of disclaimers which suit your specific business model (e.g. affiliate or CPA marketing, business services, AdSense, AdWords, adult, medical, etc) and leave out those that are not required.
Compliance Bar offers a number of great features to site owners. Here are just some:
Show Visually Appealing Icon Bar – Compliance Bar displays links to your compliance pages using attractive icons that can be positioned anywhere in your page. You can also upload your own icons.
Display Restricted Content – If your site has content that should be restricted to certain age groups (e.g. content related to alcohol, tobacco, dating, etc.), Compliance Bar can display pop-ups that force users to accept your terms and disclaimers.
EU Cookie Compliance – If your business is based in Europe or display your content to visitors in the EU, you must make users aware of your user cookies and notify them of how you use them. Compliance Bar displays an attractive bar that notifies visitors and covers you from non-compliance.
Records & Stores IP Acceptance – Compliance Bar records your visitors' IP address for reference, just in case a user accepts your terms or disclaimers and then claims otherwise.
Shortcode Driven – The plugin is integrated with shortcodes that populate the templates with your personal information. These shortcodes also allow you to place information anywhere on your site or blog, (even in the pop-ups).
Mobile Friendly – Compliance Bar has individual settings for displaying on mobile devices and can display mobile optimized icons automatically based on the mobile browser being used.
After installing and activating the plugin, a section where the plugin's settings can be configured is added to your WordPress admin area.
Let's briefly review these areas …
There are a number of default categories in this screen where your business information can be entered (e.g. "Contact Name," "Company Address," "Contact Phone," "Product Name," etc.). Not all categories are required, but some are (e.g. "Business Name," "Business Address," etc.)
(Compliance Bar Plugin User Profile Section – Image source: plugin documentation)
The plugin uses shortcodes to automatically populate and display the information from your User Profile into your page templates …
(Compliance Bar Plugin User Profile Page: Shortcodes – Image sourced from plugin documentation)
Once the minimum required information has been input into the user profile fields, users can then access the other plugin areas.
The "Compliance Pages" section includes a list of all of your compliance templates …
(Compliance Bar: Compliance Page Templates – Image source: plugin documentation)
When we last checked the Compliance Bar plugin website, there were over 22 compliance pages available:
You can create legal pages for your blog or website quite easily simply by selecting checkboxes and clicking the "Save" button in the "Create Pages" screen …
(Compliance Bar Plugin: Legal Templates – Screenshot source: plugin documentation)
Your legal pages will then be created and added inside your "Pages" section.
The plugin is installed with a default set of icons for referencing your legal pages …
Icons can be changed. You can purchase additional icons from the plugin developer, or create/upload your own to match the style of your theme …
(Compliance Bar Plugin: Compliance Page Icons – Screenshot source: plugin documentation)
Edit / Delete Compliance Page Templates
You can edit and delete the compliance disclaimers from the "Compliance Pages" screen, just as you would any other WordPress page …
(Compliance Bar Plugin: Edit Compliance Templates – Image sourced from plugin documentation)
The plugin settings area provides various options to customize the Compliance Bar, including where to position the bar, whether to display links or icon images, background colors and images, image size, specifying which pages should be included in the Compliance Bar, whether or not to display the Compliance bar on your front page, which pages the Compliance Bar will display in, mobile settings, and offset distance …
You can create more than one Compliance Bar to display different icons on different pages, or to cover different uses in other areas of your website.
The plugin lets you display a Compliance Bar on the home page of your site, even if you are using a specific 3rd-party theme framework (e.g. Genesis, Thesis or WooThemes), where the home page is specifically configured through the theme itself as a built-in template, and not as a normal "static" WordPress page.
Due to the smaller size of mobile device screens, there is a limit to the number of page icons you can display if you turn Mobile Settings "on."
Once you have configured your Compliance Bar settings, it will display links to your legal through a visually appealing icon bar on your site …
You have full control over the location on your pages where you would like the compliance icons to be featured …
If you plan to display content that should be restricted to certain age groups (e.g. content related to alcohol, ecigs, adult, etc.), Compliance Bar can display popups that blocks access to users who do not accept your website's terms or disclaimers.
The "Create Pop Up" screen lets you fully customize your pop ups …
You can create more than one Pop Up for different pages, or to cover a multitude of uses in other areas of your website …
You can also specify a delay time to prevent Pop Ups from displaying as soon as visitors arrive, set a cookie duration to prevent Pop Ups from appearing again within a specific time interval, and record the IP addresses of visitors who accept your terms and disclaimers for future reference …
The Compliance Bar plugin lets you manage the settings for compliance with EU Cookies requirements, including the wording of your notification message and link text in the "EU Cookies" area …
(EU Cookies Section: Manage Settings – Image sourced from plugin documentation)
The "Page Templates" tab, lists all of your compliance pages and shortcodes, and lets you modify their content …
The "General Settings" section, lets you access general information, such as promoting and sharing the plugin and receiving plugin updates …
Below are some of the testimonials that users have submitted for Compliance Bar Plugin:
"I got a chance to review the Compliance Bar plugin…WOW!! I have to say that its definitely one of the most NECESSARY, yet easiest to use plugin's to hit the scene in a while. Very Solid Product. Great job Anton & team!" Shon Chris – Director (JV Peer Group)
"Don't Risk Your Online Business" Mike Thomas (The Mike From Maine Show)
Below are a few extra ways to use Compliance Bar:
Protecting against content theft by spelling out your website's terms of use.
If you include content that is deemed inappropriate for underaged viewers on your website, you can force visitors to click to confirm that they are of legal age to view your content.
Plugin Developers provide users with dedicated 24/7 plugin support to help users if they experience any issues. You also get access to complete video training manuals.
Additionally, your purchase is backed by a risk-free, thirty day, 200% money-back guarantee. If your edition of Compliance Bar does not work within 30 days of purchase and it cannot be fixed within 48 hours (Monday to Friday), your purchase price will be refunded in double.
Single Site Licensing – Can be installed on 1 of your own domains. Price = $37 (Normally $127)
Business License Edition – Install the plugin on up to 25 domains that you own. Cost = $67.00 (Normally $197).
Developer – Install the plugin on all as many of your own sites as you want. Can be installed on any client site for payment or part of a paid service. Price = $97.00.
Note: The cost to purchase the Compliance Bar plugin can vary, depending on whether there are any promotions or limited-time specials being offered. Currently, the product is selling for the pricing shown above. This may not be the actual pricing charged by the product seller when you visit the website and you may be shown additional upsells or one-time offers after you've purchased.
Check the plugin's website for the current pricing details: Compliance Bar – Compliance Plugin For WordPress
Legal Pages Reviewed By Lawyers – The plugin developers assert on their website that all legal templates have already been reviewed and approved by a leading lawyer. Nonetheless, we highly recommend that you get legal advice from a qualified legal expert in your area to ensure that your site is fully compliant.
For "how-to" videos of the plugin in action, including installation instructions and tutorials, FAQs, customer help desk, contact details and more, visit the Compliance Bar Plugin website.
Compliance Bar is an easy-to-use, simple and cost-effective solution for WordPress-driven websites and blogs. We recommend downloading and installing this plugin for WordPress users if you want immediate peace of mind and legal protection.
For more information, check out the plugin here: Compliance Bar Plugin – Compliance Bar Plugin – WP Website Compliance Plugin
Legal Disclaimer: Once again, we are not lawyers and we cannot offer legal advice here. Do your own due diligence and consult a legal expert about the best way to ensure that your website fully complies with the law in your country or region.
Disclaimer: We are not associated with WordPress or any of the WP products written about on this site. We may derive a financial benefit from sales of products advertised, reviewed or linked to from this site. The product details on this page have been sourced from the plugin's own website and sites that provide Premium WP Services
compliance plugin WordPress site legal templates plugin for WordPress online presence legal pages WordPress plugin add medical disclaimer WordPress plugin compliance disclaimers
provide high quality puerarin powder in nederlands | ginhall
The Healing Power of puerarin for Your Health – High Quality Natural Powder Kudzu Root Extract Puerarin 98% US $215.00-$242.00 / Kilogram 1 Kilogram (Min. Order) CN Xian Pincredit Bio-Tech Co., Ltd. 7 YRS …
The Healing Power of puerarin for Your Health High Quality Natural Powder Kudzu Root Extract Puerarin 98% US $215.00-$242.00 / Kilogram 1 Kilogram (Min. Order) CN Xian Pincredit Bio-Tech Co., Ltd. 7 YRS 29/6/2021 · Powders should have 3 grams of sugar or fewer per serving. You can always sweeten your mix with fresh or frozen fruit. Add a liquid, like dairy milk, which is also high in protein, or a plant
Home – ProPrems ProPrems® is a high-quality food supplement. ProPrems® is a multi-strain product with three bacteria: Rigorous manufacturing control ensures safe food supplementation. The three bacterial strains are stable at room temperature. Each porton of 3, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, high blood sugar and cardio-cerebrovascular diseases such as migraine patients; 4, menopausal women, easily irritated people, commonly used alcohol, tobacco, 5, women AIDS to raise colour, the elderly
China Monk Fruit Extract manufacturer, Tongkat Ali Extract, Artichoke Extract supplier – Changsha Heking Bio- Tech Co., Ltd. We provide high quality extracts for global functional food, beverage, health products, cosmetics and pharmaceutical etc. Its branch, xi′an heking bio-teah Co., Ltd, wasfounded in 2011 and is located in xi′an shaanxi The company has A&J Metal Finishing. A&J is Alberto and his son Alberto Jr. Together with their family they provide high quality, low price, fast-turnaround powder coating & sandblasting. ajmetalfinish. Posts IGTV Tagged.
Shaanxi Huaying Biological Technology Co., Ltd. – Plant extract, Animal extract Shaanxi huaying biological technology co., ltd. Is located in xi 'an international port district core area.It is a high and new technology enterprise that research and develop production of animal and plant extracts, healthy food raw Our company provides high quality products and honest services for our customers. We have many stable clients in both the domestic market and the oversea market. Our products are sold far away to foreign markets, for example, Japan, America,
The Ketogenic Diet for Health: Follow RSS Feed & Discover Posts | Inoreader
The Ketogenic Diet for Health - RSS Feed
Some years ago people became excited about the news that poor dental health, particularly gum disease, and heart disease are correlated. Not only that, but gum disease develops first! Post hoc ergo propter hoc ("after this, therefore because of this") right?Soon we started hearing advice to take good care of our teeth (by brushing and flossing), because...
Microbiome Nonsense: response to "Chowing Down On Meat"
Response to "Chowing Down On Meat" As the claim that animal protein and saturated fat is unhealthy becomes less and less tenable, those who have the intuition that animal-based nutrition must be bad for you are looking elsewhere.There was great excitement at the end of 2014 about a study posted in Nature demonstrating the rapid changes in human gut...
Ornish Diet Worsens Heart Disease Risk: Part I
Dr. Dean Ornish has come under a lot of criticism lately for his misleading statements about diet and heart disease. See, for example: Critique of Dean Ornish Op-ed, by Nina Teicholz, and Why Almost Everything Dean Ornish Says about Nutrition Is Wrong, from Scientific American.Ornish made his name with a study that claimed to actually reverse heart...
Something that nearly always comes up when we talk about babies naturally being in ketosis is the fact that breast milk contains sugars — as much as 40% [1].Some people have even argued with us that therefore babies are not in ketosis!@Dr_Rousseau @Jonathan_Witt "Assumption" of babies being ketogenic is wrong. Breast milk is 40% carbs, not ketogenic.—...
There are multiple lines of evidence that an animal-based diet best supports human brain development in infants and young children.In brief / contentsHuman fetuses and infants rely on ketones for brain building.Weaning onto meat increases brain growth.The brain is an energy-intensive organ that required an animal-based diet to evolve.Because humans...
The previous generation of myths about low carb diets were focused on organ systems. They warned of things like kidney dysfunction, and osteoporosis. As these myths became untenable, new myths have swiftly taken their place: myths, for example, about hormone systems, and gut bacteria.In previous posts, such as here, and here, we dispelled misinformation...
One of the cheapest and easiest ways to measure ketones is to use ketone test strips, e.g. Ketostix. Ketone test strips use a chemical reaction to measure acetoacetate (see below), usually in urine, though the same method can be used for blood. (Not to be confused with the blood strips used at home for beta-hydroxybutyrate.) However, acetoacetate test...
(Related post: Red Light, Green Light: responses to cortisol levels in keto vs. longevity research) One of the myths surrounding ketogenic diets comes from misunderstanding the role of cortisol — the "stress hormone".In a previous post, we addressed one of the arguments behind this myth: the idea that to activate gluconeogenesis (to make glucose out...
We humans are storytellers. When we want something to be memorable and meaningful, we make it into a story that can be interpreted causally. Our brains are just made that way [1], [2]. That may be why adding dramatic anecdotes to a book or article can make it more popular and persuasive than sticking solely to claims that have gone through rigorous...
Some people, even some scientists who study ketogenic metabolism, have the idea that ketogenesis is somehow abnormal, or exceptional; an adaptation for emergencies only. We disagree.One reason we think a ketogenic metabolism is normal and desirable, is that human newborns are in ketosis. Despite the moderate sugar content of human breast milk, breastfeeding...
Dr. Saurabh Sethi MD, MPH - Gastroenterology, Hepatology
About	ssethi	2018-01-01T17:49:53+00:00
Meet Doctor Sethi
Dog lover . Travel enthusiast . Avid reader
Dr. Sethi has a broad interest in digestive diseases and endoscopy, with special interests in liver, biliary, and pancreatic diseases, gastrointestinal cancers, and Barrett's esophagus. He has advanced training in therapeutic endoscopy, including endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP), endoscopic ultrasound with fine needle aspiration (EUS-FNA), endoscopic mucosal resection (EMR), radiofrequency ablation (RFA), placement of stents and dilation of strictures.
Dr. Sethi has authored numerous articles published in well-respected, peer-reviewed journals. He has delivered a number of presentations at national and international meetings. He has received multiple awards and accolades including the prestigious Harvard Medical School Excellence in Tutoring Award 2013 and NIH-funded T-32 Training Grant for clinical research in Gastroenterology 2013-2014.
Dr. Sethi is like a trusted family member. He takes care of both mine and my mom's stomach issues. I would recommend him highly to anybody looking for an outstanding stomach doctor in the bay.
The reason why I have been Dr. Sethi's patient for more than 2 years is because he genuinely cares for his patients. He LISTENS to what you have to say with patience, a rare quality in doctors these days.
I had a life-threatening bleeding from my stomach and was admitted to the washington hospital. Dr. Sethi expedited the endoscopy and was able to control the bleeding by putting some clips on the ulcer skillfully. I can not thank him enough for saving my life!
Atwal R
I find Dr. Sethi to be extremely caring and knowledgeable. I continue to visit him whenever my IBS acts up. His tender care puts me at ease instantly
Dr. Sethi is very approachable and personable. I had a very pleasant experience with colonoscopy.
I was highly impressed with my experience at Dr. Sethi's office. The quality of care provided was fantastic. I would highly recommend this Harvard and Stanford trained doctor to my family and friends.
Frontiers | Cigarette Smoke Induces Intestinal Inflammation via a Th17 Cell-Neutrophil Axis | Immunology
Front. Immunol., 29 January 2019 | https://doi.org/10.3389/fimmu.2019.00075
Cigarette Smoke Induces Intestinal Inflammation via a Th17 Cell-Neutrophil Axis
Myunghoo Kim1†, Bonhee Gu2, Matthew C. Madison2, Hyo Won Song1, Kendra Norwood1, Andrea A. Hill1, Wan-Jung Wu1, David Corry2,3,4,5,6, Farrah Kheradmand2,3,4,5,6 and Gretchen E. Diehl1,3,5*
1Department of Molecular Virology and Microbiology, Alkek Center for Metagenomics and Microbiome Research, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States
2Departments of Pathology and Immunology, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States
3Biology of Inflammation Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States
4Department of Medicine, Pulmonary and Critical Care, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States
5The Dan L. Duncan Cancer Center, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, TX, United States
6Center for Translational Research in Inflammatory Diseases, Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center, Houston, TX, United States
Epidemiological evidence finds cigarette smoking is a common risk factor for a number of diseases, not only in the lung but also in other tissues, such as the gastrointestinal tract. While it is well-documented that smoking directly drives lung inflammatory disease, how it promotes disease in peripheral tissues is incompletely understood. In this study, we utilized a mouse model of short-term smoke exposure and found increased Th17 cells and neutrophilia in the lung as well as in the circulation. Following intestinal inflammatory challenge, smoke exposed mice showed increased pathology which corresponds to enhanced intestinal Th17 cells, ILC3 and neutrophils within intestinal tissue. Using cellular depletion and genetic deficiencies, we define a cellular loop by which IL-17A and downstream neutrophils drive cigarette smoke-enhanced intestinal inflammation. Collectively, cigarette smoke induced local lung Th17 responses lead to increased systemic susceptibility to inflammatory insult through enhanced circulating neutrophils. These data demonstrate a cellular pathway by which inflammatory challenge in the lung can sensitize the intestine to enhanced pathological innate and adaptive immune responses.
Cigarette smoke (CS) is the major preventable cause of human death (1). Despite public awareness of the harmful effects of smoking, there is increased prevalence of smoking in many developing countries (2). CS or components of CS directly impact lung immune homeostasis leading to fatal illness including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and lung cancer (3, 4). CS exposure also impacts immune-mediated diseases in other tissues, such as cerebrovascular (3) and cardiovascular diseases (4). Within the intestine, CS influences the severity of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in a way that is incompletely understood. For example, epidemiological evidence demonstrates that smoking is the most important environmental risk factor for Crohn's disease (5). In contrast, nicotine, a major component of CS, is thought to play an anti-inflammatory role in ulcerative colitis (6). Together, the underlying immune cellular mechanisms by which CS affects pathogenesis of intestinal inflammatory diseases are unknown.
The lung and intestinal tracts are both mucosal tissues and, in the context of immunity to pathogens, there is evidence that lung and intestinal immunity can influence each other (7). However, many critical questions remain as to how local tissue immunity alters immune response in distal tissue sites. Given the association between smoking and intestinal inflammation, we wanted to determine the impact of altered lung immune responses on the regulation of intestinal inflammation.
Intestinal inflammation can be induced by a variety of environmental factors including pathogen infection, toxins, and allergen exposure. Intestinal inflammation is mediated by the accumulation of innate immune cells and expansion of pro-inflammatory T cells (8). In response to inflammatory signals, significant numbers of circulating neutrophils and monocytes accumulate in the inflamed tissue and can amplify inflammatory responses. T cells respond to local cues including cytokine production by antigen presenting cells to differentiate into effector T cells, such as Th1 and Th17 cells which can further mediate intestinal inflammatory diseases (8, 9). Chronic intestinal inflammation, such as IBD is a major risk factor for development of cancer with in the gastrointestinal tract including colorectal cancer (10, 11). Therefore, understanding how environmental contribute to an inflammatory environment will enable development of therapeutics to limit tissue damage and cancer development.
Using a mouse model of CS exposure (12, 13), we established that short term exposure results in an altered lung inflammatory milieu without tissue pathology, such as emphysema, allowing us to determine the impact of CS exposure on intestinal inflammation in the absence of secondary effects due to lung tissue damage. In short term CS exposed mice, we found an increased Th17 signature in the lung. We further identified increased pro-Th17 cytokines and neutrophil numbers in the blood circulation after CS exposure. To determine the role of CS in inducing intestinal inflammation, we treated CS exposed mice with dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) to induce intestinal damage and found CS-exposed mice had enhanced intestinal inflammation with elevated Th17 cell, ILC3, and neutrophil responses in the intestine. By utilizing strategies for selective depletion or cytokine deficiency, we further demonstrated that this IL-17A-neutrophil axis is key to enhancing intestinal inflammation after CS exposure. These data demonstrate crosstalk between organ specific immune responses where environmental priming of a lung inflammatory response leads to enhanced systemic innate responses that increase susceptibility to intestinal inflammatory insult.
C57BL/6J (Jax # 000664) and IL-17a−/− mice [C57BL/6 background, obtained from Dr. Chen Dong (The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX)] were kept in specific pathogen-free conditions and bred at the animal facility of Baylor College of Medicine. Mouse experiments were performed with at least three female mice per group (6–8 weeks of age). Littermate mice were randomly assigned to experimental groups. All animal experiments were performed in accordance with approved protocols for the BCM Institutional Animal Care and Usage Committee.
Mice were exposed to cigarette smoke as previously described (12, 13). Briefly, 6-weeks-old female mice were exposed to active smoke from commercial cigarettes (Marlboro 100's). Exposure to 3 cigarettes (~4–5 min per cigarette) per day, 5 days a week for 2 months was carried out by intermittently forcing air (4 l min−1) through the burning cigarette. Intermittent cycles were designed to mimic puffing cycles of human smokers and to prevent CO2-induced asphyxiation. Puffing cycles consisted of 5 s of active cigarette smoke followed by 25 s of forced air by a timer controlled two-way valve (Humphrey, Kalamazoo, MI). Mice were given 10 min of rest between each cycle of cigarette smoke exposure. For nicotine exposure, mice were intranasally (i.n.) administered 2.5 ug of nicotine once per day, 5 days a week.
For intestinal inflammation, mice were provided 2% DSS in drinking water for 6 days followed by plain water before analysis on day 12. Colon tissues were processed to assess for histological changes. Colonic or lung tissues were examined by flow cytometry for T cells, ILCs, neutrophils and by qRT-PCR for expression of inflammatory cytokines and neutrophil responses. Blood and lung homogenate were collected. Cytokine concentrations were examined by Luminex assay according to manufacturer's protocol (Millipore). When indicated, mice were injected intraperitoneally with antibodies (50 mg/injection for each antibody) to deplete neutrophils (anti-Ly6G or isotype (BioXcell) on day −2, 0, 2 post-DSS challenge). As control animals, mice were injected with isotype antibody.
Large intestinal lamina propria cells were isolated as previously described (14). Briefly, mouse intestines were washed in PBS, once with 1 mM DTT and twice with 30 mM EDTA, and then digested in 100 U/ml type VIII collagenase (Sigma-Aldrich) and 150 ug/ml DNase-containing media with 10% fetal bovine serum. Digested material was passed through a cell strainer and separated on a discontinuous 40/80% Percoll gradient. Mouse immune cell isolation from lung and mesenteric lymph node (MLN) were prepared by mechanical disruption, filtered through a 40-um Falcon cell strainer, followed by RBC lysis (ACK lysis buffer, Sigma) for 3 min.
Flow cytometric analysis was performed on an LSR II (BD Biosciences) and analyzed using FlowJo software (Tree Star Inc.). Antibodies were from BD Pharmingen, eBiosciences, or BioLegend. DAPI or UV live/dead fixable dead cell stain (ThermoFisher) was used to exclude dead cells. Total cell counts were determined with 123count eBeads (ThermoFisher). For intracellular staining of cytokines, cells were activated in RPMI 1640 (10% fetal bovine serum) with phorbol myristate acetate (50 ng/ml), ionomycin (1 μM), and GolgiPlug (BD bioscience) for 4 h. Cells were then stained for surface antigens [CD3 (145-2C11), TCRβ (H57-597), and/or CD4 (RM4-5)]. Cells were then fixed, permeabilized, and stained with antibodies to IL-17A (TC11-18H10.1), IL-22 (IL-22JOP), or IFN-γ (XMG1.2). Cells were stained with an antibody to mouse FoxP3 (FJK-16s), T-bet (4B10), GATA-3 (16E10A23), or RORγt (BD2) according to the manufacturer's protocol (eBioscience). For neutrophils, cells were stained with antibodies for CD11b (M1/70), Ly6C (AL-21), and Ly6G (1A8). For ILCs, cells were stained with Lineage antibody cocktail, CD90.2 (53-2.1) then permeabilized and stained for intracellular T-bet, GATA-3, or RORγt.
RNA from MLN, lung and colon tissue was prepared with Trizol (Invitrogen) according to manufacturer's instructions. RNA was reverse transcribed into cDNA (SuperScript III; Invitrogen) and qPCR was performed with Applied Biosystems Viia7 Real-time PCR system with SYBR Green Supermix (Roche), 20 pmol forward and reverse primers, and 0.1 μg of cDNA. The thermocycling program was 40 cycles at 95°C for 15 s, 60°C for 30 s, and 72°C for 30 s, with an initial cycle of 95°C for 2 min. Relative levels of target gene were determined by using the delta Ct value compared to delta Ct (GAPDH). qRT-PCR was performed with primers described previously (15) or as follows:
Tissues were fixed in 10% neutral buffered formalin, routinely processed, sectioned at 6 um, and stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) for light microscopic examination. Samples were assessed in a blinded fashion. Samples were scored using a standard scoring system of 0–4 based on previously described criteria (16).
To determine if data followed a normal distribution we performed Shapiro-Wilk test. If normality was not rejected, we utilized Student's t-test for two groups or two-way ANOVA with Bonferroni's correction. If normality was rejected, we utilized Mann-Whitney test for two independent groups and Kruskal-Wallis test with Dunn's multiple comparison post-test for more than two groups. All analyses were performed using GraphPad Prism version 7.0. Differences were considered to be significant at ns: P > 0.05, *P ≤ 0.05, **P < 0.01, ***P < 0.001.
Cigarette Smoke Exposure Increases Intestinal Inflammation
We first sought to determine the impact of CS on intestinal inflammation. To this end, we employed our well-established mouse model of smoke exposure (12, 13) in combination with the DSS induced-colitis model. Mice were treated with air or CS for 2 months before treatment with 2% DSS for 6 days. Compared to air exposed mice, CS exposed mice exhibited increased weight loss with delayed recovery after DSS treatment (Figure 1A) as well as shorter colon length (Figure 1B). We found increased histological damage in CS mice including disrupted villi structure, and increased immune cell infiltration including neutrophils, together resulting in higher colitis scores (Figure 1C). Nicotine is a major component of cigarette that is known to have immune-modulatory effects (6). We treated mice with nicotine alone, but found no impact on intestinal inflammation in response to DSS treatment (Supplementary Figures 1A,B). Overall, these results indicate that CS exposure increases intestinal damage after inflammatory challenge.
Figure 1. Cigarette smoke promotes intestinal inflammation. (A–C) Mice were exposed to air or cigarette smoke (CS) for 2 months before treatment with 2% DSS for 6 days. Body weight changes (A), colon length (mm) (B), and representative H&E staining of colon tissue and colitis scores (C). Representative and pooled data obtained (mean ± SEM, n = 8–9) from two independent experiments are shown. Student's t-test (A,B), Mann-Whitney (C) was used to determine significance. **P < 0.01; ***P < 0.001.
CS Induces Lung Th17 Differentiation With Increased Pro-Th17 Cytokines and Neutrophils in the Lung
To understand how CS exposure resulted in heightened sensitivity to DSS colitis, we analyzed whether CS exposure altered immune responses in the lung. We and other groups previously reported that long term CS exposure induced multiple immune alterations to the lung immune system (12, 13). This includes activation of lung antigen presenting cells (APC) in human patients and mice. In mouse models, this activation promotes Th17 cell differentiation that drives an emphysema-like lung pathology after long-term exposure (12). In our experiments, 2 months of smoke exposure is not sufficient to induce an emphysema phenotype with 4 months of smoke exposure required (12). However, after 2 months of CS exposure we observed increased Th17 cell frequency in the lung and secretion of IL-17A in lung homogenates (Figures 2A,B). We also found increased production in the lung of the pro-Th17 cytokine IL-1β (Figure 2B). Accumulating evidence suggests crosstalk between neutrophils and Th17 cells induces local tissue inflammation which can lead to tissue damage after microbial infection or tissue injury (17). As expected, CS-exposed mice had increased frequencies of neutrophils in the lung (Figure 2C). Neutrophils produce peroxidase and proteolytic enzymes, which mediate inflammatory diseases (18). In accordance with an elevated neutrophil pool in the lung tissue, we also found increased lung expression of the neutrophil activity-associated factors myeloperoxidase (MPO) and matrix metalloproteinase-9 (MMP9) after CS exposure (Figure 2D).
Figure 2. Cigarette smoke induces lung Th17 cell and neutrophil responses. Mice were exposed to air or CS for 2 months. (A) Percentages of RORγt+ cells among lung CD3+TCRβ+CD4+ T cells. (B) Cytokines in lung homogenates as determined by Luminex assay. (C) Frequencies of neutrophils (CD11b+Ly6G+ cells) in the lung of mice exposed to air or CS for 2 months. (D) Lung mRNA expression of neutrophil response genes as determined by qRT-PCR. Data is representative of two independent experiments with 6–8 animals per group (mean ± SEM). Student's t-test (A,C,D) or Mann-Whitney test (B) was used to determine significance. *P ≤ 0.05; **P < 0.01; ***P < 0.001.
CS-Exposure Alone Is Not Sufficient to Enhance Intestinal Th17 Cell Responses
We next checked if CS-exposed mice had enhanced intestinal Th17 cell or neutrophil responses. In the colonic lamina propria and mesenteric lymph node (MLN), we failed to observe altered T cell responses, including Th17 or Th22 cells or ILC populations (Figures 3A–D and Supplementary Figures 2, 3). However, we found increased mRNA expression of the pro-Th17 cytokine IL-6 in the MLN with no alterations in other inflammatory cytokines (Figure 3E). Along with the lack of intestinal Th17 cell responses, we did not detect increased MLN or intestinal neutrophils or neutrophil activity-associated factors in the intestine (Figures 3F,G).
Figure 3. CS exposure alone does not enhance intestinal Th17 cell and neutrophil responses. Mice were exposed to air or CS for 2 months. (A–D) Frequencies (%) and absolute numbers of Th17 cells (gated on CD3+CD4+) in mesenteric lymph node (MLN) and colonic lamina propria as determined by flow cytometry. (A,C) Representative dot plots are shown of total Th17 cells (CD3+CD4+TCRβ+RORγt+ cells, top) and IL-17A expressing Th17 cells (CD3+CD4+IL-17A+ cells, bottom). (B,D) Frequency and absolute cell numbers of IL-17A producing cells (CD3+CD4+IL-17A+ cells). (E) mRNA expression as determined by qRT-PCR for cytokines in MLN from Air and CS mice. (F) Frequencies of neutrophils (CD11b+Ly6G+ cells) in MLN and colon. Percentages of CD11b+Ly6G+ neutrophils among live cells are shown. (G) mRNA expression as assessed by qRT-PCR for neutrophil response genes in the colon tissues from Air and CS mice. Data is representative of two independent experiments with eight animals per group (mean ± SEM). Student's t-test was used to determine significance. ns, P > 0.05; ***P < 0.001.
CS-Exposed Mice Display Systemic Inflammation and Neutrophilia
When we analyzed the blood and spleen of CS exposed mice, we found systemic effects of smoke exposure. After 2 months of CS exposure and in parallel with observed lung alterations, we found increased blood concentration of the pro-Th17 cytokine IL-1β and decreased concentration of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 (Figure 4A). However, we did not observe increased levels of IL-17A in the blood and further found no increase in splenic Th17 cell frequencies (Figures 4A,B). We did find increased neutrophil frequency in the blood and spleen (Figure 4C).
Figure 4. CS exposure induce systemic pro-Th17 cell responses and neutrophilia. Mice were exposed to air or CS for 2 months. (A) Quantification of indicated cytokines in the blood as determined by Luminex assay (B) Frequencies of Th17 cells in spleen from Air and CS mice as determined by flow cytometry. (C) Frequencies of neutrophils (CD11b+Ly6G+ cells) in blood and spleen from air or CS mice. Percentages of CD11b+Ly6G+ neutrophils among live cells are shown. Data is representative from two independent experiments with 6–8 animals (mean ± SEM). Mann-Whitney test (A) or Student's t-test (B,C) was used to determine significance. ns, P > 0.05; *P ≤ 0.05; **P < 0.01.
Together, our immune profiling shows increased Th17 cell responses in the lung with increased downstream effectors including inflammatory cytokines and neutrophils in systemic sites including blood and spleen. However, CS-exposure alone did not directly lead to accumulation of inflammatory cells within intestinal tissue.
Increased Th17 Cell, ILC3, and Neutrophil Responses in the Intestine of CS-Exposed Mice During DSS-Colitis
We next assessed intestinal immune responses in CS exposed mice during DSS-induced inflammation. Within the colon, CS/DSS mice had increased IL-6 and IL-17A gene expression alongside decreased IL-10 expression (Figure 5A). Supporting the increased observed intestinal pathology, CS/DSS mice showed increased Th17 cell frequency and number in the MLN and colon as compared to Air/DSS mice (Figures 5B,C). We found no differences in Th22 cell frequency between Air and CS mice treated with DSS (Figures 5B,C and Supplementary Figure 2). Further, the proportion of other T cell subsets (Th1, Th2, and Treg) in the spleen, MLN, or intestine were comparable between Air and CS treatment after DSS treatment (Supplementary Figure 2). Parallel to increased Th17 cells, we found increased numbers of type 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3, Lineage−CD90+RORγt+ cells) in the colon of CS treated mice after DSS challenge (Figure 5D). Like the changes in T cell subsets, other ILC subsets (Lineage−CD90+T-bet+ ILC1, Lineage−CD90+Gata3+ ILC2) were not altered after CS exposure (Supplementary Figure 3). Overall, we observed amplified Th17 and ILC3 responses after DSS challenge in the intestines of CS exposed mice.
Figure 5. Cigarette smoke exposed mice display elevated intestinal Th17 cell and neutrophil responses after DSS challenge. Mice were exposed to air or CS for 2 months followed by 2% DSS for 6 days. Mice were sacrificed at 9 days post-DSS treatment. (A) mRNA expression for indicated cytokine in the colon from DSS treated Air and CS mice as determined by qRT-PCR. (B,C) Frequencies (%) and absolute numbers of Th17 cells in MLN and colonic lamina propria from DSS treated Air and CS mice as determined by flow cytometry. Representative dot plots are shown and frequencies and numbers of IL-17A+ Th17 cells (CD3+CD4+IL-17A+ cells). (D) Representative dot pots and absolute number of ILC3 (Lineage−CD90+RORγt+ cells) in colonic lamina propria from DSS treated Air and CS mice. Cells shown are gated as lineage−CD90+ cells. (E) Frequencies of neutrophils in MLN and colonic lamina propria from Air and CS mice after DSS challenge. Frequencies are % of Ly6G+ cells among CD11b+ cells. (F) mRNA expression for neutrophil response genes in the colon tissues from DSS treated Air and CS mice as determined by qRT-PCR. Data is representative or pooled data from two independent experiments with 8–10 animals (mean ± SEM). Student's t-test was used to determine significance. *P ≤ 0.05; **P < 0.01; ***P < 0.001.
After DSS challenge, a number of innate cell populations are known to increase in the intestine that contribute to pathology, including neutrophils (19). In parallel to finding of increased neutrophils in the lung after CS exposure, we also found increased neutrophil recruitment and related activity genes expression, such as MPO and elastase in the intestines of DSS treated mice exposed to CS (Figures 5E,F). In the blood, CS-exposed, DSS treated mice (CS/DSS) displayed an increased pro-Th17 and IL-17A response (Supplementary Figure 4). These data indicate that CS sensitizes the host immune system to amplify Th17 cells, ILC3, and neutrophil responses in the intestine during colitis.
CS-Driven IL-17A Responses Mediates Neutrophil Recruitment and Intestinal Inflammation
As we identified increased Th17 cells, ILC3 and neutrophil responses in the intestine after CS exposure during DSS-colitis, we next wanted to determine whether these immune signals drive the observed enhanced intestinal pathology. IL-17A deficient mice show reduced pathology in models of smoking induced emphysema (12). After short term CS exposure wildtype mice showed enhanced lung IL-1β as well as elevated IL-1β and IL-6 in the blood. This enhanced response was absent in IL-17 deficient mice (Figure 6A). As IL-17 induces neutrophil recruitment, we no longer observed enhanced recruitment of lung or blood neutrophils in IL-17A deficient mice after CS exposure (Figure 6B). This indicates that IL-17A drove the systemic inflammation including neutrophil recruitment into lung tissue and systemic neutrophilia in CS exposed mice.
Figure 6. Increased lung IL-17A after CS exposure drives the systemic inflammation and neutrophilia in the lung and blood. IL-17A wildtype or knockout mice were exposed to air or smoke for 2 months. (A) Levels of pro-Th17 cytokine, IL-1β in the lung and IL-1β and IL-6 in the blood as determined by Luminex assay. (B) Frequencies of neutrophils (CD11b+Ly6G+ cells) in the lung and blood. Representative and pooled data obtained (mean ± SEM) from two independent experiments with 5–6 animals are shown. Kruskal-Wallis test with Dunn's multiple comparison was used to determine significance. ns, P > 0.05; *P ≤ 0.05; **P < 0.01. All mice are on the B6 background and were cohoused for 2 weeks before smoke exposure.
To understand the role of IL-17A in CS-induced intestinal inflammation, we exposed IL-17a−/− mice to CS followed by treatment with DSS. While wildtype mice showed increased weight loss and intestinal pathology after CS exposure (Figures 1, 7A,B) this increased pathology was lost in CS exposed IL-17A deficient mice (Figures 7A,B). Further, after DSS challenge, we did not find enhanced neutrophil numbers in the intestines of IL-17A deficient CS mice (Figure 7C). Collectively, increased lung IL-17A after CS exposure is responsible for increased neutrophil recruitment into the mucosal tissues.
Figure 7. Cigarette smoke-induced neutrophil recruitment and intestinal inflammation depends on IL-17A. (A) Body weight change (%) of indicated mice exposed to air or CS for 2 months followed by DSS treatment. (B) Colon length and colitis scores after 2% DSS treatment. (C) Frequencies of neutrophils (CD11b+Ly6G+ cells) in the colon after DSS treatment were assessed by flow cytometry. Representative and pooled data obtained (mean ± SEM) from two independent experiments with 6–8 animals are shown. Kruskal-Wallis test with Dunn's multiple comparison were used to test for significance. ns, P > 0.05; *P ≤ 0.05; **P < 0.01.
Neutrophils Mediate CS-Driven Intestinal Inflammation
We next wanted to determine if neutrophils were required for the observed increased intestinal pathology after CS exposure. We depleted neutrophils by injecting air and CS exposed mice with anti-Ly6G antibodies or isotype before and during DSS challenge (−2, 0, 2 days post-DSS). Mice treated with anti-Ly6G had reduced neutrophil frequencies throughout the body including in the colon ((Supplementary Figure 5). While we found a slight improvement in colitis score after neutrophil depletion of air treated mice, we found no alteration in weight loss, colon length or Th17 cell responses (Supplementary Figure 6). In contrast, neutrophil depletion protected CS exposed mice. Anti-Ly6G treated animals exhibited reduced weight loss, normalized colon length and improved colitis scores as compared to isotype treated CS exposed mice (Figures 8A,B). However, we still observed comparable increased frequencies and numbers of Th17 cells in the colon of CS treated mice with intact or depleted of neutrophils (Figure 8C). In CS/DSS mice, IL-17A remained elevated in the lung and blood after neutrophil depletion along with increased IL-1β and IL-6 in the blood (Figure 8D). Overall, CS exposure leads to local Th17 cell responses in the lung which drives increased circulating neutrophils and inflammatory cytokines. After intestinal injury, IL-17A drives increased intestinal pathology through increased neutrophil recruitment into intestinal tissue (Supplementary Figure 7).
Figure 8. Neutrophils mediate cigarette smoke-enhanced intestinal inflammation. Two months CS exposed mice were treated with 2% DSS followed by treatment with isotype or neutrophil depleting αLy6G antibody at −2, 0, and 2 days post-DSS challenge. (A) Body weight change (%) and (B) colon length and colitis scores of CS mice with intact or depleted of neutrophils after DSS-induced acute inflammation. (C) Frequencies and numbers of Th17 cells in the intestine after DSS treatment were assessed by flow cytometry. (D) Quantification of Th17 cell response related cytokines in the lung homogenate and blood by Luminex assay. Data is representative of two independent experiments (mean ± SEM). Representative and pooled data obtained (mean ± SEM) from two independent experiments with 6–7 animals are shown. Mann-Whitney was used to test for significance. ns, P > 0.05; *P ≤ 0.05.
In this study, we utilized an animal model of short-term smoke exposure to understand how lung inflammatory signals could impact pathological responses within intestinal tissue and identify early local and systemic changes after smoke exposure. After 2 months of CS exposure, we do not find signs of histological disease within the lung. However, we find elevated Th17 cell responses along with elevated pro-Th17 cell cytokines, such as IL-1β in the blood. However, we do not observe altered inflammatory changes in the intestine after CS exposure.
IL-17A is produced by Th17 cells and ILC3 and plays an important role in both induction of tissue inflammation, anti-microbial immunity, and colorectal cancer (20). These effects are partially mediated though recruitment of neutrophils into inflamed tissue (17). As predicted, CS exposure alone increases neutrophil numbers in the lung in parallel to increased IL-17A and Th17 cells. We also find elevated neutrophils in the blood of CS exposed mice however this does not extend to intestinal tissue as CS alone is insufficient to increase intestinal or MLN neutrophil numbers. Together, these data indicate that short term CS exposure may prime the systemic immune system but does not directly lead to increased tissue damage or inflammation within the intestine.
To ask if CS induced alterations in immune responses in the lung and circulation were sufficient to alter immune responses after intestinal damage, we utilized a combined mouse model of CS exposure and DSS-induced colitis. We found that CS exposure enhanced intestinal pathology. Alongside increased weight loss and colitis score, we also found increased intestinal numbers of Th17 cells and ILC3 in CS exposed mice undergoing DSS-induced colitis. Supporting a role for IL-17 induced neutrophil recruitment, we also found increased neutrophil numbers in the intestines of CS exposed mice after DSS treatment.
We next demonstrated that IL-17A is a critical mediator of enhanced intestinal inflammatory damage after CS exposure. In CS exposed mice, IL-17A deficiency reduced blood pro-Th17 cytokines IL-1β and IL-6 as well as circulating neutrophils to the levels found in air exposed mice. After DSS challenge, CS exposure did not increase intestinal inflammation in mice deficient for IL-17A with intestinal pathology and neutrophil numbers comparable to those found in Air exposed mice. This indicates that lung IL-17A induced by CS exposure is important for sensitizing systemic inflammation.
In line with our findings, other studies have reported increased lung and blood neutrophils in smokers (21, 22). Further, mouse models of CS exposure also report increased lung neutrophils (13). However, the role of CS-induced increased circulating neutrophils in inducing distal inflammation has not been determined. In this study, through depletion of neutrophils during intestinal inflammation, we demonstrated that neutrophil responses driven by CS play a significant role in enhanced intestinal inflammation after DSS challenge. Neutrophil depletion partially rescued increased intestinal inflammation in CS exposed mice. While neutrophils are the major downstream effector of IL-17, there are likely additional mediators downstream of the increased IL-17A as IL-17A deficiency more completely ameliorated CS-enhanced pathology. Together, these data suggest that the neutrophil response is downstream of lung IL-17A and Th17 cell responses driven by CS.
It is speculated that the mucosal immune system is itself a "system wide organ" in which the mucosal immune cells distributed throughout the body can communicate between or among different mucosal tissues or organs (7). However, the majority of studies of the mucosal immune system focus on understanding responses within individual organs. Recent studies have supported reciprocal regulation of immune responses between lung and intestinal tissue (23). For example, the gut microbial metabolites short chain fatty acids regulate lung immunity in a model of allergy (24, 25). Viral infection in the lung can induce intestinal injury through Th17 cell responses (26). However, many questions remain about how such cross talk is achieved or what immune signaling pathway transfers signals between the various mucosal sites. In this study, altered lung immunity after CS exposure promoted Th17 cell and downstream neutrophil responses in the intestine after DSS challenge. We further demonstrated that the Th17 cell and neutrophil responses are major immune pathways for communicating between the lung and intestine.
Intestinal factors, such as the microbiota also likely influence this axis. Within the mouse intestine, there are examples of microbes that can drive local immunity that is either pro- or anti-inflammatory. We and others have identified intestinal microbes that can activate local anti-inflammatory responses (27, 28). Segmented filamentous bacteria (SFB) is a mouse commensal that induces local Th17 cell responses and can also sensitize to both local and distal inflammation (29, 30). Our mice are SFB free and so have limited steady state intestinal Th17 cell responses. It will be interesting to understand if intestinal microbiota alterations further sensitize to or can protect from lung Th17 responses.
Together, we find intrinsic or extrinsic factors that alter the circulating neutrophil pool and/or recruitment of neutrophils to tissue sites after immune challenge are a cellular mechanism of immune regulation between distal tissues. Our studies demonstrate a critical role for this Th17-neutrophil axis in driving intestinal inflammation after CS exposure. Our work also provides evidence that communication between individual arms of the mucosal immune system can contribute to increased pathology in disease.
GD and MK designed and analyzed experiments and wrote the manuscript with input from all co-authors. MK and BG performed and analyzed the experiments. MM, HS, KN, AH performed experiments. DC, W-JW, and FK designed and analyzed the experiments.
This work was supported by NIH AI123945 (GD), NIH AI125264 (GD) institutional NRSA T32AI053831_Corry (AH), AAI Careers in Immunology Fellowship (MK), the Cytometry and Cell Sorting Core at Baylor College of Medicine with funding from the NIH (P30 AI036211, P30 CA125123, and S10 RR024574).
The Supplementary Material for this article can be found online at: https://www.frontiersin.org/articles/10.3389/fimmu.2019.00075/full#supplementary-material
1. Bilano V, Gilmour S, Moffiet T, d'Espaignet ET, Stevens GA, Commar A, et al. Global trends and projections for tobacco use, 1990–2025: an analysis of smoking indicators from the WHO comprehensive information systems for tobacco control. Lancet (2015) 385:966–76. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(15)60264-1
2. Samet JM, Wipfli HL. Globe still in grip of addiction. Nature (2010) 463:1020–1. doi: 10.1038/4631020a
3. Mazzone P, Tierney W, Hossain M, Puvenna V, Janigro D, Cucullo L. Pathophysiological impact of cigarette smoke exposure on the cerebrovascular system with a focus on the blood-brain barrier: expanding the awareness of smoking toxicity in an underappreciated area. Int J Environ Res Public Health (2010) 7:4111–26. doi: 10.3390/ijerph7124111
4. Howard G, Wagenknecht LE, Burke GL, Diez-Roux A, Evans GW, McGovern P, et al. Cigarette smoking and progression of atherosclerosis: The Atherosclerosis Risk in Communities (ARIC) study. JAMA (1998) 279:119–24.
5. Calkins BM. A meta-analysis of the role of smoking in inflammatory bowel disease. Dig Dis Sci. (1989) 34:1841–54.
6. Hayashi S, Hamada T, Zaidi SF, Oshiro M, Lee J, Yamamoto T, et al. Nicotine suppresses acute colitis and colonic tumorigenesis associated with chronic colitis in mice. Am J Physiol Gastrointest Liver Physiol. (2014) 307:G968–78. doi: 10.1152/ajpgi.00346.2013
7. Gill N, Wlodarska M, Finlay BB. The future of mucosal immunology: studying an integrated system-wide organ. Nat Rev Immunol. (2010) 11:558–60. doi: 10.1038/ni0710-558
8. Cader MZ, Kaser A. Recent advances in inflammatory bowel disease: mucosal immune cells in intestinal inflammation. Gut (2013) 62:1653–64. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2012-303955
9. Neurath MF. Cytokines in inflammatory bowel disease. Nat Rev Immunol. (2014) 14:329–42. doi: 10.1038/nri3661
10. Grivennikov SI, Greten FR, Karin M. Immunity, inflammation, and cancer. Cell (2010) 140:883–99. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2010.01.025
11. Chen J, Pitmon E, Wang K. Microbiome, inflammation and colorectal cancer. Semin Immunol. (2017) 32:43–53. doi: 10.1016/j.smim.2017.09.006
12. Shan M, Yuan X, Song L-Z, Roberts L, Zarinkamar N, Seryshev A, et al. Cigarette smoke induction of osteopontin (SPP1) mediates T(H)17 inflammation in human and experimental emphysema. Sci Transl Med. (2012) 4:117ra9. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3003041
13. Hong MJ, Gu BH, Madison MC, Landers C, Tung HY, Kim M, et al. Protective role of γδ T cells in cigarette smoke and influenza infection. Mucosal Immunol. (2018) 11:894–908. doi: 10.1038/mi.2017.93
14. Diehl GE, Longman RS, Zhang J-X, Breart B, Galan C, Cuesta A, et al. Microbiota restricts trafficking of bacteria to mesenteric lymph nodes by CX(3)CR1(hi) cells. Nature (2013) 494:116–20. doi: 10.1038/nature11809
15. Kim MH, Kang SG, Park JH, Yanagisawa M, Kim CH. Short-chain fatty acids activate GPR41 and GPR43 on intestinal epithelial cells to promote inflammatory responses in mice. Gastroenterology (2013) 145:396–406.e1–10. doi: 10.1053/j.gastro.2013.04.056
16. Berg DJ, Davidson N, Kühn R, Müller W, Menon S, Holland G, et al. Enterocolitis and colon cancer in interleukin-10-deficient mice are associated with aberrant cytokine production and CD4(+) TH1-like responses. J Clin Invest. (1996) 98:1010–20. doi: 10.1172/JCI118861
17. Pelletier M, Maggi L, Micheletti A, Lazzeri E, Tamassia N, Costantini C, et al. Evidence for a cross-talk between human neutrophils and Th17 cells. Blood (2010) 115:335–43. doi: 10.1182/blood-2009-04-216085
18. Witko-Sarsat V, Rieu P, Descamps-Latscha B, Lesavre P, Halbwachs-Mecarelli L. Neutrophils: molecules, functions and pathophysiological aspects. Lab Invest. (2000) 80:617–53. doi: 10.1038/labinvest.3780067
19. Kiesler P, Fuss IJ, Strober W. Experimental models of inflammatory bowel diseases. Cell Mol Gastroenterol Hepatol. (2015) 1:154–70. doi: 10.1016/j.jcmgh.2015.01.006
20. Stockinger B, Omenetti S. The dichotomous nature of T helper 17 cells. Nat Rev Immunol. (2017) 17:535–44. doi: 10.1038/nri.2017.50
21. Hoonhorst SJM, Timens W, Koenderman L, Tam Loi Lo AT, Lammers J-WJ, Boezen HM, et al. Increased activation of blood neutrophils after cigarette smoking in young individuals susceptible to COPD. Respir Res. (2014) 15:121. doi: 10.1186/s12931-014-0121-2
22. Blidberg K, Palmberg L, Dahlen B, Lantz A-S, Larsson K. Increased neutrophil migration in smokers with or without chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. Respirology (2012) 17:854–60. doi: 10.1111/j.1440-1843.2012.02181.x
23. Budden KF, Gellatly SL, Wood DLA, Cooper MA, Morrison M, Hugenholtz P, et al. Emerging pathogenic links between microbiota and the gut-lung axis. Nat Rev Micro. (2017) 15:55–63. doi: 10.1038/nrmicro.2016.142
24. Trompette A, Gollwitzer ES, Yadava K, Sichelstiel AK, Sprenger N, Ngom-Bru C, et al. Gut microbiota metabolism of dietary fiber influences allergic airway disease and hematopoiesis. Nat Med. (2014) 20:159–66. doi: 10.1038/nm.3444
25. Cait A, Hughes MR, Antignano F, Cait J, Dimitriu PA, Maas KR, et al. Microbiome-driven allergic lung inflammation is ameliorated by short-chain fatty acids. Mucosal Immunol. (2018) 11:785–95. doi: 10.1038/mi.2017.75
26. Wang J, Li F, Wei H, Lian Z-X, Sun R, Tian Z. Respiratory influenza virus infection induces intestinal immune injury via microbiota-mediated Th17 cell-dependent inflammation. J Exp Med. (2014) 211:2397–410. doi: 10.1084/jem.20140625
27. Kim M, Galan C, Hill AA, Wu W-J, Fehlner-Peach H, Song HW, et al. Critical role for the microbiota in CX3CR1+ intestinal mononuclear phagocyte regulation of intestinal T cell responses. Immunity (2018) 49:151–63.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.immuni.2018.05.009
28. Atarashi K, Tanoue T, Oshima K, Suda W, Nagano Y, Nishikawa H, et al. Treg induction by a rationally selected mixture of clostridia strains from the human microbiota. Nature (2013) 500:232–6. doi: 10.1038/nature12331
29. Longman RS, Littman DR. The functional impact of the intestinal microbiome on mucosal immunity and systemic autoimmunity. Curr Opin Rheumatol. (2015) 27:381–7. doi: 10.1097/BOR.0000000000000190
30. Longman RS, Yang Y, Diehl GE, Kim SV, Littman DR. Microbiota: host interactions in mucosal homeostasis and systemic autoimmunity. Cold Spring Harbor Symp Quant Biol. (2014) 78:193–201. doi: 10.1101/sqb.2013.78.020081
Keywords: cigarette smoke, intestinal inflammation, Th17 cells, neutrophils, lung-gut axis
Citation: Kim M, Gu B, Madison MC, Song HW, Norwood K, Hill AA, Wu W-J, Corry D, Kheradmand F and Diehl GE (2019) Cigarette Smoke Induces Intestinal Inflammation via a Th17 Cell-Neutrophil Axis. Front. Immunol. 10:75. doi: 10.3389/fimmu.2019.00075
Received: 21 August 2018; Accepted: 11 January 2019;
Copyright © 2019 Kim, Gu, Madison, Song, Norwood, Hill, Wu, Corry, Kheradmand and Diehl. This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY). The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted, provided the original author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited and that the original publication in this journal is cited, in accordance with accepted academic practice. No use, distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms.
*Correspondence: Gretchen E. Diehl, gdiehl@bcm.edu
†Present Address: Myunghoo Kim, Department of Animal Science, Pusan National University, Pusan, South Korea
