Note that Edien has no access to or control over these cookies that are used by third-party advertisers.
Edien’s Privacy Policy does not apply to other advertisers or websites. Thus, we are advising you to consult the respective Privacy Policies of these third-party ad servers for more detailed information. It may include their practices and instructions about how to opt-out of certain options. You may find a complete list of these Privacy Policies and their links here: Privacy Policy Links.
Edien does not knowingly collect any Personal Identifiable Information from children under the age of 13. If you think that your child provided this kind of information on our website, we strongly encourage you to contact us immediately and we will do our best efforts to promptly remove such information from our records.
This Privacy Policy applies only to our online activities and is valid for visitors to our website with regards to the information that they shared and/or collect in Edien. This policy is not applicable to any information collected offline or via channels other than this website.

Sep 24, 2008 · This paper explores the effects of market structure on the effectiveness of loyalty programmes. A literature review led to the proposition that effectiveness is dependent upon firms' existing customer information deficit and their ability to segment markets with differentiated products. A case study examines two sectors with differing market characteristics: civil aviation and car ferries.
Jan 14, 2019 · Customer loyalty programs have been a strategy doing this in different industries for a long time, especially popular in the airline industry. There is no unison agreement that these programs ensure customer loyalty however, as the literature review in this paper will show.
Oct 19, 2017 · 13 Customer Loyalty Program Ideas to Keep Customers Happy By Anna Dizon on October 19, 2017 With so many options available in physical stores and online, keeping customers loyal to your brand is no easy task.
SUMMIT, N.J., May 03, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Engage Therapeutics, Inc., today announced dosing of the first patient in its multi-center, double-blind, randomized Phase 2b StATES (Seizures) trial to investigate the safety and efficacy of Staccato alprazolam in subjects with epilepsy that have a predictable seizure pattern.
The StATES trial (NCT03478982) will enroll 108 patients across 40 U.S.-based clinical sites. The primary endpoint is the cessation of seizure activity. Seizure episode severity, as well as the incidence of adverse events, will also be evaluated. Topline data is expected in the second half of 2019. Staccato alprazolam, a single use, investigational epileptic seizure rescue therapy, combines the Staccato delivery technology, which is currently used in a U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)-approved product, with alprazolam, an FDA-approved benzodiazepine. Together, this combination is novel for an epilepsy application in a patient population in need of innovative rescue options.
A concurrent mental illness and substance use problem means that someone experiences a mental illness and, at the same time, use substances like alcohol or other drugs in ways that could cause harm. Substance use is a problem when it negatively affects a person’s life or the lives of others. Addiction or dependence (needing to use alcohol or other drugs to stop withdrawal) is one kind of substance use problem, but you don’t need to experience an addiction to experience harm to relationships, finances, or health from alcohol or other drug use. It’s helpful to think of alcohol and drug use as a spectrum—if helpful use is at one end and harmful use is at the other end, there are varying levels of both in the middle.
WHAT IS THE RELATIONSHIP?
People who experience mental illness are more likely than others to also experience a substance use problem. Similarly, people who experience problems with alcohol or drug use are more likely to be diagnosed with a mental illness. How strong is the connection? One major study that looked at people over their lifetime suggests that about half of people with one type of problem have the other type of problem, too.
There are three main ways that these concurrent problems interact. It’s important to keep in mind that each mental illness is different and alcohol and other drugs have different effects, so individual people will have unique experiences.
Mental illnesses can add to substance use problems
People who experience mental illness might use substances like alcohol and other drugs in risky ways. One theory is that alcohol or other drugs help people cope with different symptoms of mental illnesses. For example, people who experience some anxiety disorders might use a short-term anti-anxiety medication in ways that it wasn’t prescribed, which can increase the risk of dependence. Some people may also use a substance to help manage the side effects of psychiatric medication. Researchers think this may be one of the reasons behind the high rate of smoking in people diagnosed with schizophrenia, for example.
Substance use problems can add to mental illnesses
Alcohol and other drugs may add to the symptoms of mental illnesses. For example, psychosis is the group of symptoms that includes hallucinations (sensations that aren’t real) and delusions (beliefs that can’t be real). It’s found in schizophrenia and other health problems. Several drugs can cause short-term symptoms of psychosis and may lead to long-lasting symptoms in some people. For people who already experience psychosis, using alcohol and other drugs can make symptoms worse and harder to treat.
The same factors can increase the risk of both mental illnesses and substance use problems
Factors like genes or changes in the brain may make some people more likely to experience both a mental illness and a substance use problem. External factors can also have an impact on mental health and substance use. Experiences of trauma, pain, poor housing, low income, loneliness, discrimination, poor access to services, easy access to substances, and other concerns that affect our community impact every individual’s health and well-being. These factors increase the risk of both mental illnesses and substance use problems.
WHAT CAN I DO ABOUT IT?
If you’re concerned about a concurrent mental illness and substance use problem, it’s important to ask for help. Some people are concerned that talking about using illegal drugs might have negative consequences. In most cases, anything you tell your health care provider is private. Using illegal drugs won’t stop you from being able to receive help.
A real problem in Canada is that mental health and substance use systems are often separate. This means that many people have to receive treatment and support for their illnesses separately, or they are denied access to care for one problem because of the other problems they have. Fortunately, more service providers are now developing more integrated treatment options for concurrent problems.
It’s important to note that the goal of treatment for substance use problems may not be stopping all substance use. A more realistic goal for some people might be using substances in less risky or harmful ways (also known as harm reduction).
Here are some options for treating concurrent problems:
Psychotherapy—Psychotherapy or counselling is a common approach for both mental illnesses and substance use problems. There are many different types of psychotherapies, depending on the problems you’d like to address and your goals in treatment. Many psychotherapy and counselling approaches work on building skills so you can cope with problems or challenges in healthier ways.
Medications—Medications may be used to treat mental illnesses, and they may be helpful in the treatment of some substance use problems. The type of medication depends on the illness or symptoms. Some medications interact with alcohol and other drugs, so it’s a good idea to talk to your doctor or pharmacist if you have any concerns.
Social services and supports—People who experience concurrent disorders may face extra challenges in finding a healthy home, earning enough to live well, and other important aspects of living with dignity. Extra supports can help people succeed in treatment, achieve their goals, and find a supportive community.
DO YOU NEED MORE HELP?
Contact a community organization like the Canadian Mental Health Association to learn more about support and resources in your area. Visit the Find Your CMHA page here to find help near you.
Founded in 1918, the Canadian Mental Health Association (CMHA) is the most established, most extensive community mental health organization in Canada. Through a presence in hundreds of neighbourhoods across every province, CMHA provides advocacy and resources that help to prevent mental health problems and illnesses, support recovery and resilience, and enable all Canadians to flourish and thrive.
DownloadConcurrentMentalIllnessandSubstanceUseProblems-NTNL-brochure-2017_web
Primary Sidebar
Mental Health Navigation Menu
Mental Health
All Topics
Finding Help
GAP – Learn About Our Program
GAP – Cyber Classroom
GAP – Blog
GAP – Provincial Resources
GAP – Contact Us
Cash Calendar: About The Calendar
Cash Calendar: Calendar Winners
Donate
Volunteer with CMHA SK
Shop
Cash Calendar Fundraisers
The 2023 CMHA Cash Calendar Fundraiser
The CMHA 50/50 Ticket Fundraiser
(Only Available with purchase of the CMHA Cash Calendar)
Hope Learning Centre Go-Fund Me
Footer Section
Who We Are
About CMHA Saskatchewan
CMHA SK Staff
Board of Directors
CMHA Saskatchewan Division Branch Offices
Annual Reports
History
Contact Us
What We Do
Get Involved
Events
Our Services
HOPE Learning Centre
Find Us On: Facebook Twitter
CMHA Saskatchewan Division
2702 12th Avenue, Regina, SK S4T 1J2
Phone: 1-800-461-5483 or 306-525-5601 (in Regina)
E-mail: contactus@cmhask.com
CRA Registered Charity number 106864044RR0001
We acknowledge that we are on Treaty 4 territory, the traditional lands of the Cree, Saulteaux, Dakota, Lakota, Nakota peoples and homeland to the Metis.
Patient Safety First - Judith Healy and Paul Dugdale - 9781742370583 - Allen & Unwin - Australia
Home>Browse>Books>Academic & Professional>Health>Patient Safety First
More people die each year in hospital accidents than in car accidents. This is a much needed systematic analysis of current issues, challenges and outcomes surrounding safety in patient health care in Australia.
UNM Hospital seeing surge of patients who delayed care | KOB 4
UNM Hospital seeing surge of patients who delayed care
Updated: April 21, 2021 06:17 PM
Created: April 21, 2021 05:38 PM
ALBUQUERQUE, N.M.- Hospitals are facing a new challenge. They are treating more patients who delayed care during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic.
University of New Mexico Hospital is at 125% capacity, but only about 3% are patients with COVID-19.
"Now we are trying to catch up and get all of those people who delayed care, getting them the surgeries and other care that they need," said Dr. Steve McLaughlin, chair of UNM Hospital's Health Emergency Medicine Department.
McLaughlin said many patients delayed care because their doctors told them to, but he said others were worried about the risk of contracting COVID-19.
However, he is seeing a change in behavior.
"As people are getting vaccinated, and the state is doing a wonderful job with that, people are now coming into the doctor, and coming into the hospital, with the things that they, maybe, ignored during the pandemic," he said.
In response, UNM Hospital is creating extra hospital capacity, and opening up clinic spots.
"Every single day, looking at really each patient in the hospital and how we can get them through the hospital as safely and quickly as possible, so we can get that next person in," Mclaughlin said.
Mclaughlin believes hospital capacity issues hit New Mexico harder than other states because of the rural and underserved areas.
However, while hospitalizations remain an area of concern, Presbyterian and Lovelace report their systems are running below capacity.
Western Carolina University - Emory Prescott
Assistant Adjunct Professor & Clinical Supervisor
Phone: 828-227-2425
Email: eeprescott@wcu.edu
Office: CHHS, Room 163
B.S. Appalachian State University, Communications Media-Advertising, Marketing, 1986.
M.S. Western Carolina University, Communication Sciences & Disorders, 1993.
Ph.D. Candidate, Natural Health Sciences, University of Natural Medicine.
I have found my dream job working as a Speech Pathologist, and have been practicing clinically for over 23 years. I feel so much gratitude when I work with adult clients and students, because we have the chance to improve lives, to assist in human recovery & wellness, and to elevate that individual's quality of life every day. I see us as "change agents," healers who impact the human condition. My Speech Pathology career has primarily focused on acute care and outpatient clinical settings, and I've also worked in long term care and private practice. I treat adult conditions such as dysphagia, apraxia, dysarthria, aphasia and voice disorders, and enjoy working closely with the area medical community.
The focus of my doctoral studies is on the complementary addition of botanicals to standard Speech Pathology care as it assists in positive treatment outcomes. I believe the movement toward individualized approaches to wellness is driving a revival of more natural patient care and prevention.
I love hiking in the mountains with my dog, yoga, reading, and traveling, and I also enjoy having a nice glass of red wine while looking out over the amazing mountain view of my backyard. I am a NC native, an avid organic gardener, and I love classical music. As I continue my studies in the area of Integrative Medicine as it relates to Speech Pathology, I am reminded of the holistic process and connectivity of every living being. We are so blessed to be together in this amazing place, learning and sharing with each other.
40+ American nurses credentialing center PowerPoint (PPT) Presentations, American nurses credentialing center PPTs - SlideServe
'American nurses credentialing center' presentation slideshows
American nurses credentialing center - PowerPoint PPT Presentation
Updated Interim Infection Control Guidance for 2009 H1N1 Influenza
Updated Interim Infection Control Guidance for 2009 H1N1 Influenza. CDR Arjun Srinivasan, MD Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion David N. Weissman, MD National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health.
Nursing Concepts. Professionalism. Definition. A profession is "a vocation requiring knowledge of some department of learning or science." A professional is one who follows "an occupation as a means of livelihood or gain" or who is "engages in one of the learned professions.". Definition.
Medical-Surgical Nursing Certification "What's the point?". Veronica Cedillo, BSN, RN-BC MSN Candidate-UOP. Disclosures. The presenter has nothing to disclose. The content of this educational activity is free of bias. There is no commercial support related to this activity.
Heat Related Illness Prevention Training for School Staff
Heat Related Illness Prevention Training for School Staff. Learn what you will need to take CDC Heat Related Illness Prevention Training Course Learn how to find and start CDC Training Course Tips for taking CDC Training Course
Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation An Expert Commentary With Michael D. Ezekowitz, MD, PhD A Clinical Context Rep
Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation An Expert Commentary With Michael D. Ezekowitz, MD, PhD A Clinical Context Report. Jointly Sponsored by: and. Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Expert Commentary. Stroke Prevention in Atrial Fibrillation Expert Commentary.
Second-Generation Antidepressants in the Pharmacologic Treatment of Adult Depression: An Update of the 2007 Comparative
Second-Generation Antidepressants in the Pharmacologic Treatment of Adult Depression: An Update of the 2007 Comparative Effectiveness Review. First Last, Credentials. Accreditation Statement. Physician Credit Designation Statement
A-Z Diabetes Educator Boot Camp Next program: February 11-15, 2013. Target Audience:	Nurses, Dietitians, Health Educators, Nurse Practitioners, Physician Assistants, Pharmacists Provides:
Librarians Improving Health Care :
Librarians Improving Health Care :. Making a Difference. Indiana Health Sciences Library Association April 9, 2013. Holly Ann Burt, MLIS NN/LM Greater Midwest Region. Making a Difference. Traditional Services Literature Searches Evidence Based Research Beyond the library Rounding
PREPARING FOR THE ADVANCED PUBLIC HEALTH NURSE CERTIFICATION EXAM. ASTDN Conference May 9, 2012 . PRESENTERS. Lisa Campbell, DNP, RN, APHN-BC, GNP-BC PHN Section-APHA, ASTDN, ANA Victoria, TX Michelle Cravetz, MS, RN-BC, APHN-BC ASTDN, ACHNE, PHN Section-APHA Albany, NY .
KAREN ZIKOSKY LAURIE NARDOZZI. PAPERLESS HOSPITALS. OBJECTIVES. Describe paperless hospitals Describe and evaluate the hardware and software utilized in Paperless Hospitals Describe and evaluate the information systems used in Paperless Hospitals. OBJECTIVES.
Celebrate Nephrology Nurses Week ANNA - Windy City Chapter Presents: Self Care for Nurses: What You Need to Know Wednesday, September 14, 2011 6:00 pm-8:15pm. Presented by: Dr. Debra Rose Wilson, PhD, MSN, RN, IBCLC, AHN-BC, CHT. Program Goal:
Sample Class Presentation Using Concepts as Focus. Welcome! Please read the following pre-webinar notes:. Audio?	Dial 1-877-783-2009 (Passcode: 936785) Attendees will be muted during the webinar until the Q&A session(s).
What Do We Know About Pediatric Spinal Cord Injury?
What Do We Know About Pediatric Spinal Cord Injury? . MJ Mulcahey, Ph.D., OTR\L Thomas Jefferson University, Jefferson School of Health Professions Department of Occupational Therapy. Disclosure of PI-RRTC Grant.
CONTINUING YOUR NURSING EDUCATION. CONGRATULATIONS!. WHY PURSUE A HIGHER NURSING CREDENTIAL?. Achievement of personal goals. Increased salary. Enhanced role. Career diversity. Professional advancement. THE CURRENT STATE OF NURSING. 1.2 million. Number of job openings for nurses by 2020.
View American nurses credentialing center PowerPoint (PPT) presentations online in SlideServe. SlideServe has a very huge collection of American nurses credentialing center PowerPoint presentations. You can view or download American nurses credentialing center presentations for your school assignment or business presentation. Browse for the presentations on every topic that you want.
Varun Ramamohan | Department of Mechanical Engineering
Probabilistic modeling, simulation and optimization, with applications in healthcare systems engineering and uncertainty of measurement.
B.Tech., National Institute of Technology, Tiruchirappalli
Assistant Professor, Mechanical Engineering, IIT Delhi, May 2017 – present
Associate Director, Health Solutions, Research Triangle Institute International, Research Triangle Park, USA, Dec 2016 – Jan 2017
Senior Research Health Economist, Health Solutions, Research Triangle Institute International, Research Triangle Park, USA, Aug 2013 – Nov 2016
Graduate Teaching Assistant, School of Industrial Engineering, Purdue University, USA, Aug 2009 – May 2012
Associate Consultant, Oracle Solution Services India, Bangalore, Jul 2007 – Jun 2008
S.F. Boklage, A.W. Mangel, V. Ramamohan, D.M. Mladsi and T. Wang. Cost-effectiveness analysis of universal noninvasive testing for post-treatment confirmation of Helicobacter pylori eradication and the impact of patient adherence. Patient Preference and Adherence, 2016; 10:1025-1035.
V. Ramamohan, J.T. Abbott and Y. Yih. Effect of uncertainty in calibration on the correlation structure of the rheumatoid factor immunoassay calibration function. 2015 Winter Simulation Conference (WSC), Huntington Beach, CA, 2015, pp. 1537-1548.
V. Ramamohan, J.T. Abbott, G.G. Klee and Y. Yih. Modeling the effect of instrument drift on measurement uncertainty: a serum bilirubin assay case study. Institute of Industrial Engineers: Transactions on Healthcare Systems Engineering, 2015; 5(3):147-164.
V. Ramamohan, J.T. Abbott, G.G. Klee and Y. Yih. Modeling, analysis and optimization of calibration uncertainty in clinical laboratories. Measurement, 2014; 50:175-185.
04 (April 2017) – CAMHS News
Prospective Associations Between Peer Victimization and Dispositional Mindfulness
Riggs, N.R. & Brown, S.M. (2017) Preventative Science. 18(4) 481-489
Peer victimization is associated with several mental health and behavioral problems during childhood and adolescence. Identifying prospective associations between victimization and factors known to protect against these problems may ultimately contribute to more precise developmental models for victimization's role in behavioral and mental health.
This study tested prospective associations between peer victimization and dispositional mindfulness, defined by non-judgmental and accepting awareness of the constant stream of lived experience, during early adolescence.
As hypothesized, baseline victimization predicted significantly lower levels of mindfulness at 4-month posttest. Baseline mindfulness did not predict victimization. Results may reflect victimized youths' mindful awareness being recurrently diverted away from the present moment due to thoughts of prior and/or impending victimization. Study implications may include implementing mindful awareness practices as an intervention strategy for victimized youth to enhance and/or restore this promotive factor.
May 3, 2017 ~ TRFT Library & Knowledge Service	~ Leave a comment
The House of Commons Education and Health Committees have jointly published Children and young people's mental health: the role of education.
The Committees found that financial pressures are restricting the provision of mental health services in schools and colleges. It calls on the Government to commit sufficient resource to ensure effective services are established in all parts of the country. It also calls for strong partnerships between the education sector and mental health services.
Read the full report: Children and young people's mental health – The role of education
Salk, R. et al. Psychological Bulletin | Published online: 27 April 2017
In 2 meta-analyses on gender differences in depression in nationally representative samples, we advance previous work by including studies of depression diagnoses and symptoms to
(a) estimate the magnitude of the gender difference in depression across a wide array of nations and ages;
(b) use a developmental perspective to elucidate patterns of gender differences across the life span; and
(c) incorporate additional theory-driven moderators (e.g., gender equity).
The gender difference for diagnoses emerged earlier than previously thought, with OR = 2.37 at age 12. For both meta-analyses, the gender difference peaked in adolescence (OR = 3.02 for ages 13–15, and d = 0.47 for age 16) but then declined and remained stable in adulthood. Cross-national analyses indicated that larger gender differences were found in nations with greater gender equity, for major depression, but not depression symptoms. The gender difference in depression represents a health disparity, especially in adolescence, yet the magnitude of the difference indicates that depression in men should not be overlooked
Hausenblas, H.A. (2017) BMJ. 357:j1745
Putting patients at the centre of their care is something that has featured in just about every annual report and health strategy document I've read in the last few years | Andre Tomlin for The Mental Elf Blog
Just like 'evidence-based' and 'shared-decision making', it's a phrase that we read all the time, but is there any evidence that we're actually doing it? Previous research suggests not (Wolpert et al, 2015), which means we run the risk of losing patients who may rightly feel alienated, but there is evidence that including young people in the decision making around their mental health care leads to better involvement and engagement (e.g. Simmons et al, 2011).
Studies - HICOR - Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center
Principal Investigator: Scott Ramsey, M.D., Ph.D.
Bankruptcy may represent a unique and heretofore unstudied potential source of health disparity. In this study, we formed a novel partnership with the Federal Bankruptcy Court and the National Cancer Institute's SEER cancer registry to link bankruptcy records for cancer patients and a matched control population without cancer.
Our findings indicated that cancer patients experience excess rates of bankruptcy compared to persons without cancer, results that have potentially important implications for those researching the causes of cancer disparity, and for policymakers seeking to mitigate the economic as well as clinical burden of persons with cancer.
Funding Source: NIH Heart, Lung and Blood Institute
A Multi-Center, Phase III, Randomized Trial of Reduced Intensity Conditioning (RIC) and Transplantation of Double Unrelated Umbilical Cord Blood (dUCB) versus HLA-Haploidentical Related Bone Marrow (haplo-BM) for Patients with Hematologic Malignancies
The BMT CTN 1101 parent trial is a Phase III, randomized, open label, multicenter, prospective, comparative trial of double unrelated umbilical cord blood (dUCB) versus HLA-Haploidentical related bone marrow (haplo-BM) transplantation after reduced intensity conditioning (RIC) in patients with hematologic malignancies. This clinical trial is being led by Dr. Paul O'Donnell at Seattle Cancer Care Alliance. In conjunction with this clinical trial, Dr. Scott Ramsey is spearheading a parallel cost-effectiveness analysis substudy to determine the incremental cost per quality adjusted life years (QALYs), of double unrelated umbilical cord blood (dUCB) versus HLA-Haploidentical related bone marrow (haplo-BM).
The purpose of this ancillary cost-effectiveness analysis substudy is to compare patient outcomes to determine which transplantation source improves quality-adjusted survival and whether the more effective transplant type also provides a cost savings to the health care payer. BMT CTN 1101 is one of the first trials to study the total cost of transplantation by collecting out-of-pocket costs from patients and caregivers. The results of this cost-effectiveness substudy will have the potential to fundamentally change treatment decision-making for patients by maximizing health outcomes for patients and helping patients and health insurers to manage high transplantation costs.
Funding Source: GE Healthcare via Center for Sustainable Health
This collaboration between GE Healthcare, Arizona State University's Center for Sustainable Health, and Fred Hutch uses multi-stakeholder engagement, and early cycle health economic evaluation to identify, prioritize and evaluate the diagnostic technologies early in the research and development process. The aim of this collaborative project is use a systems-based, stakeholder-guided approach to develop cost-effective, evidence-based diagnostics that improve human health and are well-positioned for clinical implementation.
Advancing Innovative Comparative Effectiveness in Cancer Diagnostics (ADVICE)
Principal Investigators: Larry Kessler, Sc.D.; Scott Ramsey, M.D., Ph.D.; Sean Sullivan, Ph.D.; Diana Buist, Ph.D.
Advancing Innovative Comparative Effectiveness research-cancer diagnostics (ADVICE) is a collaboration between researchers at Fred Hutch (FHCRC), Group Health Research Institute (GHRI), the University of Washington (UW), and the Veterans Administration (VA) of Puget Sound.
The ADVICE project, performed with active involvement of local stakeholders, developed a data infrastructure for comparative effectiveness research studies that linked private and public insurance claims data with the SEER Cancer Registry. Initial analyses focused on MRI, PET/PET-CT and CT compared to mammography for women with local, regional and advanced stage breast cancer as well as the use of PET/PET-CT for staging of newly diagnosed NSCLC patients. The resulting dataset consists of more than 85% of patients in the public and private insurance market (excluding the self-insured) in Western Washington. The size and inclusiveness of this database allows for results to be generalized to other regions and nationally.
Impact of Bevacizumab Use on Overall Survival in Metastatic Colorectal Cancer Patients Treated in the Community
Principal Investigator: Veena Shankaran, M.D., M.S.
This research initiative aims to understand the impact of bevacizumab use in overall survival for patients diagnosed with metastatic colorectal cancer using SEER-Medicare claims data. In collaboration with Genentech, Inc., this retrospective database study is led by Dr. Shankaran, gastrointestinal oncologist at Seattle Cancer Care Alliance and clinical investigator at the Fred Hutch. Bevacizumab is a monoclonal antibody drug marketed by Genentech, Inc. that has become an essential component of colorectal cancer therapy in the last several years. Although the use of bevacizumab in combination with chemotherapy for the first-line treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) has been shown to improve overall survival in large clinical trials, the impact of bevacizumab on patient survival in community practices in the United States is not known.
Principal Investigator: Bernardo Goulart, M.D., M.S.
Funding Source: The Gregory Fund for Early Cancer Detection Research
To address the uncertainties associated with low-dose CT (LDCT) screening for lung cancer, Dr. Goulart and collaborators at the Hutchinson Institute for Cancer Outcomes Research (HICOR) have developed a pilot registry of patients undergoing LDCT screening at the Seattle Cancer Care Alliance (SCCA). This single center pilot study conducts chart reviews and patient surveys using the EQ-5-D and SF-12 quality of life questionnaires to collect prospective data on LDCT test performance (true and false positive rates), health-related quality of life at baseline, 3, and 6 months after screening, healthcare resource utilization, medical complications, adherence to guidelines for patient selection, and smoking cessation rates. This pilot project has been critical for establishing the research infrastructure for data collection in a single academic medical center and will generate insightful preliminary data about the characteristics of the initial patients screened in practice and the clinical and economic outcomes of LDCT screening after the release of the NLST results.
