Climb to Health With Stair Climbing
By Harvey B. Simon, M.D. - author of The No Sweat Exercise Plan
Reprinted from The No Sweat Exercise Plan: Lose Weight, Get Healthy, and Live Longer by Harvey B. Simon, M.D. Copyright © 2006 President and Fellows of Harvard College. Published by McGraw-Hill
Harvey B. Simon, M.D., is an associate professor of medicine at Harvard Medical School, a member of the Health Sciences Faculty at MIT, and the founding editor of Harvard Men's Health Watch. He is a graduate of Yale College and Harvard Medical School. Since completing his postgraduate training at Massachusetts General Hospital and the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Simon has maintained an active clinical practice at Massachusetts General Hospital. He is the award-winning author of five previous books on health and fitness and received the London Prize for Excellence in Teaching from Harvard and MIT.
Chronic Granulomatous Disease (CGD) - Dana-Farber/Boston Children's Cancer and Blood Disorders Center
Home > Conditions > Blood Disorders > Chronic Granulomatous Disease
Chronic Granulomatous Disease Treatment at Dana-Farber/Boston Children's
Children with CGD are treated at Dana-Farber/Boston Children's through our Blood Disorders Center. Continue reading to learn more about CGD or visit the Blood Disorders Center homepage to learn about our expertise and treatment options.
Most children with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) are diagnosed by age 5. The most common symptoms of the disease include:
Osteomyelitis—a bone infection
Suppurative arthritis—the invasion of a joint by a bacterial infection, which causes arthritis
Superficial skin infections such as cellulitis and impetigo
How do you diagnose chronic granulomatous disease (CGD)?
What is the treatment for chronic granulomatous disease (CGD)?
Treatment for chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) includes:
Preventative (prophylactic) antibiotics and antifungals on a long-term basis are the mainstays of treatment.
Infection management with antibacterial or antifungal medications
Gamma-interferon therapy to help boost the immune system to help fight infections
Surgery to relieve obstruction from granulomas, drain abscesses or remove established infections
A new gene therapy clinical trial at Dana-Farber/Boston Children's may help pave the way toward new treatment approaches for CGD.
Learn more about the gene therapy clinical trial for CGD
What is the long-term outlook for children with CGD?
The prognosis for children with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) has improved over the last three decades. The highest mortality is during early childhood, typically from infection. Without treatment, children usually die within the first decade of life. The mortality rate has fallen with modern preventative treatments of antibiotics, antifungals, and interferon therapy.
Stand Up To Cancer — SU2C, Melanoma Research Alliance & Laura Linney Stand Up to Melanoma
SU2C, Melanoma Research Alliance & Laura Linney Stand Up to Melanoma
SU2C & The Melanoma Research Alliance Collaborate on New Print PSA "Wear Your Beauty Brilliantly," Starring Laura Linney
SEPTEMBER 26, 2012 (LOS ANGELES / NEW YORK) – Stand Up To Cancer (SU2C) and the Melanoma Research Alliance (MRA) have joined forces with a new print public service announcement starring Academy Award® nominee Laura Linney. Headlined "Wear Your Beauty Brilliantly," the PSA is designed to raise awareness about the life-saving benefits of protecting oneself from harmful exposure to UV rays that increase the risk of being diagnosed with melanoma and is the first element in a "Protect Your Skin" campaign. The deadliest of all skin cancers, melanoma is the fastest growing cancer globally and its incidence has tripled in the U.S. over the past three decades. While prevention is the first step, early detection of melanoma is key to survival. Through the PSA, SU2C and MRA also encourage people to look for changes in their skin and to speak to their dermatologists or health care providers about signs and risks. When caught early, the five year survival rate for melanoma is 92%. Linney, an SU2C celebrity ambassador, has helped shine a spotlight specifically on melanoma through her role on The Big C. In the series, her character "Cathy" is a Midwestern wife, mother, and public school teacher who is contending with Stage 4 melanoma. With an awareness of cancer from childhood—her mother was a nurse at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York—Linney is well-versed in the preventive measures one can take to reduce chances of a melanoma diagnosis. "All it takes is a single reminder for a person to do a self-exam that could save his or her life. Melanoma and Breast Cancer can often be seen and felt, respectively, and the impact of open conversations about cancer and its prevention cannot be underestimated. So talk about Cancer. Encourage the women you care about to do a self breast-exam regularly, and everyone to look over their bodies for any strange markings. Communication can curtail cancer, so talk it up!" Linney said. MRA is the largest private funder of melanoma research. To date, MRA has awarded $38 million to 97 research programs to make transformative advances in the prevention, diagnosis, staging, and treatment of melanoma, including research in biological causes of carcinogenesis, skin screening, biomarkers, imaging, immunotherapy, molecularly targeted therapy, and combination therapy. MRA's ultimate goal is to find a cure by funding the most promising melanoma research worldwide that will accelerate progress and improve outcomes for patients and all who are at risk for the disease.
Stand Up To Cancer (SU2C)—a program of the Entertainment Industry Foundation (EIF), a 501(c) (3) charitable organization—raises funds to accelerate the pace of groundbreaking translational research that can get new therapies to patients quickly and save lives. SU2C facilitates collaboration among the best and the brightest in the cancer research community. The American Association for Cancer Research (AACR) and a Scientific Advisory Committee led by Nobel Laureate Phillip A. Sharp, Ph.D., conduct rigorous, competitive review processes through which SU2C's grantees are selected. By galvanizing the entertainment industry, SU2C generates awareness and builds grassroots support for this new approach to ending cancer. ABOUT THE MELANOMA RESEARCH ALLIANCE
Ali Brubaker 212-774-6145 .(JavaScript must be enabled to view this email address) Rubenstein Public Relations
Taylor Varnon: home health recreational therapist | Oklahoma State University
Alumni in the College of Education and Human Sciences pursue exciting careers and make a difference in their communities. Taylor Varnon, a 2020 recreational therapy alumna, recently found her career passion for recreational therapy in a home health setting during an internship. Varnon is currently a recreational therapist independent contractor in the Texas panhandle with Caprock Home Health Services and Touch of CLASS.
"I have my OSU professors and clinical instructor to thank for my success within this profession," Varnon said.
With classes ranging from psychology to warm water therapy and physiology, Varnon had many opportunities for hands-on learning. She shares advice for recreational therapy students and professionals and describes her experience at OSU.
How would you describe recreational therapy to someone who isn't familiar with the field?
Recreational therapy utilizes a holistic approach for rehabilitation, seeking to treat five unique aspects of each person: physical, emotional, social, spiritual and cognitive. Many of those areas are temporarily and sometimes permanently altered when an injury, disease, illness or life-changing event occurs. Therefore, recreational therapists use leisure and recreational activities to develop, enhance and sustain those five areas to improve a person's skilled independence and quality of life.
What are your day-to-day work responsibilities?
Within the home health setting I work with diagnoses such as Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, autism, epilepsy, intellectual disabilities and traumatic brain injuries. My day-to-day responsibilities include performing assessments and evaluations; implementing interventions; and completing documentation such as initial evaluations, treatment notes, quarterly reviews and yearly summaries.
Recreational therapy majors complete two internships totaling 1,000 hours. Could you tell us a bit about your experiences?
My junior internship was within the physical rehabilitation setting at Christus Spohn Shoreline Hospital in Corpus Christi, Texas. I had the privilege of treating patients with traumatic brain injuries, cerebrovascular accidents, spinal cord injuries and amputations. I learned how to perform assessments and evaluations; implement interventions; monitor and evaluate patient progress; participate in treatment team meetings; and complete documentations such as admission assessments, daily treatment notes/summaries and discharge summaries.
My senior internship was also in Corpus Christi but in a home health setting. Not only did I learn the ways of recreational therapy and home health, but I also learned what to do as a future clinician during a global pandemic. Despite coronavirus, I was able to work with my clinical instructor to continue treating patients, and I actually learned many more new topics than I was expecting.
What inspired you to major in recreational therapy at OSU?
From a young age I knew I had a passion for helping others, but truthfully, I didn't have a clue what I wanted to choose as my profession. I remember a recreational therapy booth during my OSU freshman orientation catching my attention. As I learned more, I realized recreational therapy could fulfill my passion for helping others, and I changed my major. Since then, I've never looked back and have grown to appreciate and love this profession more and more each day.
What advice do you have for current OSU recreational therapy students?
Volunteer and attain as much hands-on experience as possible. You will not only be more prepared for your clinical rotations but more confident in your skills as a future clinician.
College of Education and Human SciencesHuman Health and WellnessKinesiology Applied Health and RecreationRecreational Therapy
That includes a “point-of-care” diagnostic from Cepheid, which received an emergency FDA authorization just two days ago. Such a treatment could theoretically be conducted within 45 minutes. But, on the flip side, there are just about 23,000 machines that can conduct the test around the world.
And then there’s the at-home testing business. The diagnostic getting the most buzz is Everlywell’s kit. The company said it started selling 30,000 kits today. They’re being offered to health care workers first, and, eventually, will be available to the broader public as well—though it may have to go through a few more regulatory steps to get to that point.
Nutrition | Health Help
When a comprehensive blood panel test is ordered by a physician, cholesterol readings are some of the most important numbers recorded on a medical laboratory report. In simple terms, cholesterol is a waxy fat that is made in your liver and is found in every cell in...
Cholesterol is a compound only found in animal products, and some animal food products contain higher levels of this compound than other products. If you are one of more than 100 million people over the age of in the US with total cholesterol levels at or above 200...
COPD is a serious ailment that affects well over 10 million Americans. Additionally, the disease is said to affect 65 million people across the globe and is responsible for 5 percent of all deaths that happen on the planet. Chronic Pulmonary Obstructive Disease causes...
Mixing methodologies to enhance implementation of healthcare operational research - ePrints Soton
Mixing methodologies to enhance implementation of healthcare operational research
Sachdeva, R., Williams, T. and Quigley, J. (2007) Mixing methodologies to enhance implementation of healthcare operational research , Southampton, UK University of Southampton 24pp. (Discussion Paper Series - Centre for Operational Research, Management Sciences and Information Systems, CORMSIS-07-10).
Healthcare Operational Research (OR) has had limited success in achieving sufficient level stakeholder acceptance to lead to implementation of results. This research study aimed at combining OR methodologies to achieve greater acceptance of results for organizational change. Patient flow delays in the Pediatric Intensive Care Unit (PICU) at Children's Hospital of Wisconsin were identified using case studies. Patient flow was modeled using hard OR (simulation) using case study findings, with active stakeholder participation, and enhanced with outcomes research. Outcomes research allowed achieving greater clinical relevance of OR findings. Results from hard OR, particularly for politically sensitive issues, were persuasive but inadequate to result in change. Soft OR (cognitive mapping) was used to identify new issues and enhance results. Consequently, the planned PICU expansion was deferred, and resources focused on improving staffing strategies identified independently from both hard and soft OR. These findings suggest that: 1) Outcomes research has a unique role to enhance results from healthcare OR. 2) After obtaining a holistic understanding of the system using hard and soft OR, stakeholders are willing to implement results from each independently, supporting the development of a common form of knowledge which is consistent with Mixed-Mode Modelling. 3) Hard OR, enhanced with outcomes research, with active stakeholder participation, and combined with soft OR, results in greater acceptance and sustained organizational change.
While primary health care is a rubric frequently invoked as a care-delivery or sociopolitical ideal, little systematic, rigorous understanding exists of how this care is actually organized and delivered in different contexts around the world to create value for health systems and societies. This initiative aims to develop a conceptual framework for analyzing different approaches to primary care delivery and then refine the framework by studying representative examples of primary health care around the world. The product of this work will be a series of case studies and a summative report, as well as novel curricular materials for training medical students and residents.
Developing Interdisciplinary Pilot Projects for Trainees and Faculty
This is a critical time globally for innovating new, higher-value models of care delivery, particularly models that better care for socioeconomically vulnerable and medically frail populations. This initiative creates opportunities for students of medicine and other academic disciplines to collaborate with each other and with faculty members to conduct research and scholarship aimed at developing, piloting, and evaluating innovative approaches to primary health care delivery to be implemented at “effector arms,” including Brigham and Women’s Hospital and Cambridge Health Alliance, and at partner sites in countries such as Brazil, Haiti, Rwanda, and Uganda.
Creating a New Primary Health Care Curriculum for Harvard Medical School
Addressing the renewed emphasis on primary care at HMS and the burgeoning understanding that medical students must be trained in nontraditional skill sets to lead and thrive in new models of health care delivery, the Program is creating novel curricular offerings for medical students that may be chosen as electives during the preclinical and/or clinical years. These include both didactics and coordinated field experiences with faculty mentors, working in collaboration with students and faculty of other academic disciplines, including engineering, management, and public policy.
Results showed (1) significantly improved prediction accuracy of individual functional connectivity when using individually optimized model parameters; (2) local model parameters can differentiate between regions directly affected by a tumor, regions distant from a tumor, and regions in a healthy brain; and (3) interesting associations between individually optimized model parameters and structural network topology and cognitive performance.
You are going to email the following Modeling brain dynamics in brain tumor patients using The Virtual Brain

Close to three hundred participants from academia and industry joined us during the two-day BioSB 2020 conference on October 27 and 28. This year’s edition has been different in many ways. Topics covered many aspects of life science research and ranged from microbial evolution to machine learning & AI and precision medicine. Read more The conference…
The selection committee of the BioSB Young Investigator Award 2020 has unanimously selected this year’s award winner! The winner is: Jasmijn Baaijens (Department of Biomedical Informatics, Harvard Medical School, Boston). Jasmijn started her PhD in bioinformatics at Centrum Wiskunde & Informatica (CWI) in the group of Prof. Alexander Schönhuth. Her PhD research focused on algorithm development for reconstruction and analysis of…
It also follows that there is nothing he can do about his problem. He didn't cause it; therefore he can't cure it. He has to call on the experts (the psychologists) and let them solve the problem. If they can't solve it, his case is hopeless because there is nothing he can do.
It is true that some emotional or mental problems are the result of physical malfunction of the brain or glands. Physical illness can cause emotional problems. However, such illness is caused by some physical impairment or malfunction, such as a good physical doctor could find. There should be some physical evidence or test that demonstrates a physical malfunction of some organ of the body.
While sin may in some ways be like disease, the claims of psychologists contradict the Bible in the following ways:
