Removal of flexible sigmoidoscopy direct access to GPs at NDHT
01/07/2022: Update to the Eastern Diabetes Prevention Programmes CRG
01/07/2022: Update to the Northern Diabetes Prevention Programmes CRG
20/05/2022 New Ophthalmology Clinical Referral Guidelines - Eastern locality
20/05/2022 New Ophthalmology Clinical Referral Guidelines - Northern locality
Right to choose arrangements for ADHD assessments (newsweaver.com)
NHS Devon CCG is aware that patients are approaching GPs requesting referrals to providers under their right to choose for an ADHD assessment.
Some practices have recently raised specific queries with the CCG in relation to right to choose for ADHD assessment.
The Right to Choose will apply when the following criteria is met:
The patient has an elective referral for a first outpatient appointment
The patient is referred by a GP
The referral is clinically appropriate
The provider has a commissioned contract with any CCG or NHS England for the required services.
To confirm, where all of the above criteria apply, GPs can refer direct to the provider chosen by the patient. In these circumstances, GPs do not need to submit an Individual Funding Request to the CCG.
Some queries around patient choice have been received specifically in relation to Psychiatry UK. This provider is accredited by the CQC and has NHS contracts with other CCGs.
Providing that the patient meets the criteria set out above, GPs can make a referral to Psychiatry UK in accordance with a patient's expressed choice.
If there are any recent requests that you may have received from patients under right to choose that you feel would be appropriate to review then please do so and these will be funded by the CCG.
Psychiatry UK are willing to discuss any aspect of the service they provide. If there is anything that GPs would like to feedback , please share this with the CCG in the first instance and we will collate and liaise with Psychiatry UK. Please use the Mental Health Team commissioning inbox for any feedback – email address below.
Colleagues at the LMC would like to remind GPs, the approved shared care agreements for some adult ADHD medications in Devon were agreed between the LMC, the CCG, Livewell Southwest and Devon Partnership Trust and are not currently used by other eligible Right To Choose providers. The LMC can only support the use of adult ADHD Shared Care Arrangements with Livewell Southwest and Devon Partnership Trust. Any Shared Care Arrangements with other eligible Right To Choose providers is optional on a case by case basis and is directly between the clinician and the provider.
If you have any queries, please contact the commissioning.mentalhealthteam@nhs.net.
Home > Referral > Key messages > Right to choose arrangements for ADHD assessments – GP bulletin 11/10/2021
① Cialis en español new zealand - ✅Drug Information
BlogHome » ① Cialis en español new zealand - ✅Drug Information
Sexual fantasies, an alternative cialis en español new zealand to sexual health problems. does medicare cover viagra new zealand
Preliminary research suggests that melatonin viagra trial hong kong intake could improve some, cialis en español new zealand not all, symptoms of IBS.
Acute pharyngoamigdalitis cialis en español new zealand is inflammation of the back of the throat or pharynge and levitra or cialis which is better singapore tonsils.
zealand new cialis español en
Leave a comment. The study analyzed Henry showed no greater benefit in treated patients, because the confidence interval goes through the non-effect line, therefore there are no significant cialis en español new zealand statistical differences. Privacy Policy.
Antibiotics that go cialis en español new zealand on when your child finishes treatment should be thrown away. This pill must be taken with water. Among other services, the city has selective waste collection, two fixed clean spots, a mobile clean spot and door-to-door pick-up service.
Second universal definition of myocardial infarction. He loses 4.5 kg y me siento feliz, quiero cialis en español new zealand continuar bajando, me gusta combine with algo de ejercicio para poder obtener mejores resultados. I need recommendations on which meals I should follow to improve.
While these details are still unclear, JPMorgan had other reasons to put the magnifying glass on ABSI years earlier: it operated like a ghost society in Cyprus, a jurisdiction considered one of the main money laundering centers at the time, and which moved hundreds of millions of cialis en español new zealand dollars through JPMorgan. Diseases in this group include: Unlike other forms of dementia, memory is not affected in people with FTD frontotemporal dementia, in English until very late in the disease. The current quarantine situation caused by the coronavirus has eliminated our usual social synchronisers. Sanitas medical picture Asturias.
It is important that you know that AI is a capricious disease, each patient experiences it in a different way and no one can accurately predict your evolution and your life expectancy. I am glad to be here and to share my opinion. Contact Exposure Information Service Frontotemporal DFT dementia cialis en español new zealand encompasses a set of diseases that affect the frontal and temporal regions of the brain. do women take viagra hong kong The 12 best natural remedies for eczema. Together, all types of radiation make up the electromagnetic spectrum, whose lengths between and nm constitute cialis en español new zealand the visible light for the human eye Figures 2A and 2B. By Dr.
By tapping the screen you can mine virtual cialis en español new zealand bitcoins and slowly increase your wealth. However, it should be accompanied by healthy eating and physical exercise. Medical Records. I will be coming back to your blog for more soon. View in other languages: Hotmail enter Portuguese direto — Brazil. It is necessary to clarify the difference between a mucous membrane and the skin.
viagra spir singaporebest natural viagra hong konghow to get a viagra prescription from your doctor south africaviagra generic name hong konghow to get viagra south africa generic levitra at new zealandanti viagra australiabuy priligy hong kongpropecia pills new zealandcialis medicine australia
Seeing her complementary therapy dream come true - Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust
You are here:Home>News>Seeing her complementary therapy dream come true
Seeing her complementary therapy dream come true
Tina Faulkner2022-04-19T17:18:32+01:00Tuesday 19 April 2022|
Elaine Cooper can look back on her Walsall NHS career with pride and satisfaction after developing and leading the Specialist Complementary Therapy Service for cancer and palliative care patients that saw her realise a personal dream almost three decades ago.
Elaine, who is Clinical Lead for the service retired from Walsall Healthcare NHS Trust today and whilst she is sad to say goodbye to "amazing colleagues and lovely patients" she feels a huge sense of achievement at the difference the team has made, and is making, to those who use healthcare services.
"Complementary therapy is used to relax people, enhance their wellbeing and help with symptom control and when I was training in complementary therapies it really resonated with me and I felt very passionately about how important it could be as part of integrated healthcare," she said.
Elaine trained as a nurse at Walsall's Sister Dora school of nursing in the late 70s and later moved to Bristol for further training and also nursed in Oxford and Norwich.
"When I'd qualified I worked at Compton Hospice for a while then started the Walsall service at Little Bloxwich day hospice where we were part of a six month pilot of complementary therapy. Needless to say that pilot went well and seeing the effect it had on patients just reinforced my belief."
In 1993 Elaine re-joined Walsall Healthcare where she has been leading and developing the Specialist Complementary Therapy Service for the last 28 years; including teaching a range of therapies and specialising in her passion on clinical aromatherapy writing chapters for various publications and helping the service to gain recognition and awards.
Based at Walsall Palliative Care Centre, the team offers therapies such as reflexology, massage and acupuncture, whilst also teaching relaxation skills including breathing techniques and visualisation which the patients can use into their day-to-day lives.
The service also encourages the use of aromatherapy oils; recommending them for the relief they can provide with ailments such as itching, insomnia and pain. And for those experiencing hot flushes and sweating, a course of auricular acupuncture is available.
"It is difficult to try to put into words all the benefits that we see when offering complementary therapy to cancer and palliative care patients but I think a simple way of expressing this is to say that we see people who have been through so much that it has really taken its toll on them and to be able to concentrate on their holistic wellbeing and to relax them is extremely powerful. It is also rewarding to be able to spend time with them and build up relationships. I think that was what made the COVID-19 pandemic so difficult for our team – I had no idea my career would also see me being involved in such a public health crisis."
The service has scooped a raft of awards including the Foundation for Integrated Health's Best Practice award for involving health and wellbeing in 2006 – presented by Prince Charles – and in 2018 was given the accolade for Palliative Care in the national Complementary Therapy Awards.
Elaine enjoys writing articles and will spend her retirement doing more of this as well as enjoying gardening, travelling and spending more time with her friends and family – including her four grandchildren.
Team lead Rachel Clark said: "Elaine is a much-loved member of the team, her passion for complementary therapies and commitment and hard work to the service is something to be celebrated. She will be greatly missed by her team and colleagues but we all wish her a well-deserved relaxing retirement – after years of helping others to relax it's now her turn!"
Health insurance can be confusing! While many of us have health insurance, we might not understand all the ins and outs of our individual plans. Understanding your physical therapy insurance benefits can make the process of getting care less intimidating and less stressful. A little time spent to learn the basics can take you from feeling in the dark to feeling empowered!
Let’s start with the basics!
Health Insurance: a contract that requires your health insurer to pay some or all of your healthcare costs in exchange for a premium.
Premium: the amount of money paid (typically each month) to have an active health insurance plan.
Let’s define some other words we often see in health insurance plans:
Member: a person who is enrolled in an insurance plan.
Provider: individual who delivers health care services.
Policyholder: purchaser of an insurance policy; in group health insurance, this is usually the employer who purchases coverage for its employees.
Deductible: the portion of medical costs to be paid by the patient before insurance benefits begin. When a deductible has not been met, payment is collected at the time of service and that amount is reported to the insurance company to be applied to your deductible.
Co-payment: the monetary amount to be paid by the patient, usually expressed as a dollar amount. A co-pay is collected at the time of service and is the same for each physical therapist visit, even if the charges submitted to the insurance company differ from visit to visit.
Co-insurance: the monetary amount to be paid by the patient, usually expressed as a percentage of charges. This amount is determined by the insurance company’s allowed amount, and is typically billed to the patient after receiving services.
Out-of-Pocket: money the patient pays toward the cost of health care services.
Eligibility: the process of determining whether a patient qualifies for benefits, based on factors such as enrollment date, pre-existing conditions, valid referrals, etc.
Reimbursement: refers to the payment by the patient or insurer (third-party) to the health care provider, for services rendered.
Whew! Let’s do a self check. Who feels like they are learning another language? Don’t let the terminology associated with insurance scare you – we were all new at this once! And trust me, as healthcare providers, we don’t expect you to be an expert! Our insurance specialists check each individual’s insurance benefits prior to providing care to give the most transparency we can of cost! If you are unsure of your plan’s specifics, contact us to have a complimentary benefit check.
If you still have questions, you are not alone! Here are some of the most frequent questions we get:
Does insurance cover physical therapy services?
Most insurances, including Medicare, worker’s compensation and private insurers, pay for Physical Therapy services. Your physical therapist and your insurance company can tell you whether your insurance covers the recommended services. You can see what insurance we accept at Elite Physical therapy here. If you do not see your insurance carrier listed, please call our office – we are a preferred provider for more companies than we can list!
What if your physical therapist doesn’t participate in your insurance plan?
Most insurance companies allow members to go “out of network” (OON) for health care services. Going OON means that you chose to see a physical therapist who is not a participating provider with your insurance company. In most cases, the amount paid by the insurance company will be less, and you will be responsible for paying the difference in the charges and what the insurance company pays. Many patients choose to receive services OON in order to see the provider of their choice.
What if you don’t have insurance?
If you don’t have insurance that covers Physical Therapy, you can still receive services from a physical therapist by paying for the services directly. If cost is a barrier, you may want to ask your physical therapist to modify your program with more focus on performing treatment on your own. Ask about establishing a payment plan so that you can get the care you need when you need it most.
Have additional questions about your health insurance and physical therapy? Elite Physical Therapy is dedicated to help patients get the best, most cost effective care faster by lowering the barrier to PT entry. We aim to provide transparency to patients regarding insurance and cost throughout their time with Elite Physical Therapy. At Elite Physical Therapy we make patients an active part of their plan of care, including as it applies to their insurance! Contact us today to learn more and begin your journey with Elite Physical Therapy!
Wellness Writers Wanted | Article Writing | Blogi | Sisällöntuotanto | haamukirjoittaminen | terveys
Wellness Writers Wanted
We care about the health of mothers and the rising rates of obesity among children and future generations. In respect to that, we need experienced writers who can provide helpful articles that cover natural home remedies, cleaning tutorials, workout plans, food recipes, diet plans natural skin care and other practical tips to help improve the lives of young mothers and children. You'll also be reviewing pregnancy, maternity, birth and baby products to help parents make the right choices for their families. Please note that these articles are fact-checked by our editorial team and medical professionals for accuracy.
Taidot: Article Writing, Blogi, Sisällöntuotanto, haamukirjoittaminen, terveys
Näytä lisää: health writer jobs, health and fitness freelance writing jobs, health and wellness blogger jobs, health blogs that pay writers, wellness content writer, write for health magazine, writing for health and wellbeing, write fitness articles for money
Projektin tunnus: #19693983
Hello! I have briefly read the description on wellness-writers development project, and I can deliver as per the requirements however I need us to discuss for more clarity on the details, deadline and budget as Lisää
Greetings, I have worked on similar projects as these able to write on your health and wellness niche as [login to view URL] write-up will be engaging and on [login to view URL] sample will be shared on chat. Regards,
HI, I am a medical writer with extensive knowledge in the field of health and medicine. I would be keen on working on your current project of writing articles about health for mothers and children. With due considerati Lisää
Statewide Childhood Obesity Rates on the Rise - Obesity
Statewide Childhood Obesity Rates on the Rise
In the United States, recent studies show more than 1/3rd of children and adolescents are either overweight or obese. This statistic has been on the rise for the past 30 years.
•Approximately 17% of children ages 2—19 years are obese. Obesity is categorized as having a body mass index (BMI), based on an individual's height and weight, of 30 and above.
•Since 1980, obesity prevalence among children has just about tripled. The condition of childhood obesity is dangerous due to an increased risk of acquiring high cholesterol levels, sleep apnea, high blood pressure, and diabetes.
•Overall obesity rates are increasing in 16 U.S. states. Not one state showed any rate decline. A study shows Colorado has the lowest overall rate and Mississippi the highest.
These findings are reported by the Trust for America's Health and the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation. This study also reports seven states as seeing their rates doubled in the last 15 years.
In 1990, no state had an obesity rate higher than 15% of its population. Today's reports show 38 states having rates over 25% with the most rapid growth being in the South. Overall, the highest rates are highest in ethnic minorities.
Is there a single reason for this increasing health dilemma?
Studies show a multitude of small social and environmental changes have been a strong catalyst to these statistics.
•Portion sizes in restaurants have increased
•Fast food establishments make high calorie choices easier to acquire
•Convenience stores offering more food choices are on the rise
•Parents have become less involved in their children's choices, due to an increased workload and hectic schedules
•Inactivity in children has lowered
The onus is on every state and community to get more proactive to come up with solutions to combat this rise. Children's behaviors are shaped by family, schools, and the communities they live in. It is a multi-faceted approach which requires an assertive drive.
Rapped in Sunscreen: Skin Cancer with Dr. Riddell Scott
In this podcast, Dr. Riddell Scott, a dermatologist with Ridgeview Medical Center and Clinics, leads the discussion about skin cancer. Dr. Scott discusses changes to our DNA, what dermatology office visits look like, types of skin cancer and treatments available, as well as prevention efforts.
My Years in Waconia - by Edith Nagel Eisinger (CHAPTER 7)
In this podcast, Edith Nagel Eisinger continues entertaining us with the seventh chapter of her memoirs in Waconia, MN.
Edith Nagel Eisinger, was the wife of Dr. Harold Nagel and nurse in the hospital she talks about in her memoirs. In 1936, the Nagel's founded the first hospital in Waconia - Nagel Hospital - which...
What Did I Myth? Obstetrical Myth Busting with Dr. Andraya Huldeen
In this podcast, Dr. Andraya Huldeen, an obstetrician and gynecologist with Western OB/GYN, a division on Ridgeview Clinics will discuss several obstetrical myths; including medication safety profiles for pregnant women, epidurals, COVID vaccinations and induction of labor. Also joining in this podcast is Dr. Nate...
The Agony of the Sweet: Diabetic Ketoacidosis (DKA) with Dr. Greg Geise
In this podcast,Dr. Greg Giese, an internal medicine physician with Ridgeview talks about diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA). More specifically Dr. Giese will discuss the pathophysiology, initial assessment findings and diagnosis of DKA, along with addressing the differences between diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and hypersmolar...
Into the Weeds (Part 2): Intrinsic Acute Kidney Injury with Dr. Kim Thielen
Addt'l Show Notes
In this podcast, Dr. Kim Thielen, a nephrologist/kidney specialist with Minnesota Kidney Specialists joins us today to continue part 2 of our discussion on acute kidney injury, as we wade further "into the weeds"
May 13, 2021 – 3.47pm
The team behind immuno-oncology success story Viralytics is back together and having another crack at developing a therapy harnessing a person's own immune system to treat colorectal, ovarian and gastric cancers.
Led my Malcolm McColl, ImmVirX is investing in the development of another oncolytic viral immunotherapy, utilising RNA viruses to target specific receptor cells that are highly prevalent on these types of cancer cells.
ImmVirX CEO Malcolm McColl is having another crack at developing an oncolytic virus immunotherapy for a range of cancers. Eamon Gallagher
Through this process, the tumour cells are killed and in addition the tumour becomes inflamed, triggering the body's innate T cells to attack the cancerous cells.
The company has raised $22 million in a round led by Melbourne-based investor Acorn Capital, and with participation from five other institutional investors, including Karst Peak Capital, which was also a backer of Viralytics. Bell Potter was the lead manager on the raising.
Dr McColl said the cash injection would give the business sufficient capital through to mid-2023, when it is due to have results from a range of clinical trials.
"We have some pre-clinical toxicity studies under way to make sure there won't be any safety issues ... then we have to do further manufacturing, find clinical trial sites and line up oncologists," he said.
"We will be able to get into the clinic within 12 months' time ... Early data can be very instructive... By mid-2023 we'll have clinical data, so we'll be talking to big pharma within 12 to 18 months, if not earlier."
Dr McColl left Viralytics (which was developing an oncolytic therapy utilising the common cold virus to fight melanoma) when it was acquired by biotech giant Merck for $502 million in 2018. He started ImmVirX in 2019, when former Viralytics chief scientific officer Darren Shafren left Merck and the pair reunited and started talking about what they would do next.
Poised to begin human trials
Having raised a small amount of capital in late 2019, they gathered together other key members of the old Viralytics crew over the next 12 months.
Now, it has completed pre-clinical work including mice studies on its lead therapy candidate called IVX 037 and is poised to begin human phase one trials.
"What we've done here is taken a different virus, done the same bioselection process [that we did with Viralytics to find CAVATAK], but we're now targeting receptors that are over-expressed in colorectal, gastric and ovarian cancers," Dr McColl said.
"We learnt with CAVATAK that the adverse effects [from oncolytic virus immunotherapies] were very minimal and, in contrast to chemotherapy, virtually nothing.
Colorectal cancer is the second deadliest cancer in the US, while ovarian cancer is the fifth deadliest cancer for women.
ImmVirX plans to investigate the potential of its candidate in its own right, but also in combination with checkpoint inhibitor drugs that allow T cells to kill cancer cells by blocking immune checkpoints which when stimulated can dampen the immune response.
It has also already been approached by CAR-T therapy developers, who are interested in testing its therapy in conjunction with CAR-T, to measure its effectiveness of tough to treat solid tumours.
The company is based out of the Hunter Medical Research Institute in Newcastle.
A major advantage of this type of cancer therapy, Dr McColl said, is the potential for long-lasting responses.
"It's making the immune system target cancer... that's when you get long-term responses," he said.
"Most of the time we're still using therapies from the 1990s and for late-stage diseases, especially in colorectal, once it goes beyond local lesions and spreads to the liver etc, there's not many good treatment options."
Acorn Capital CEO Robert Routley said he was impressed by the track record of Dr McColl and the team.
"[They have] demonstrated success in the discovery, pre-clinical and clinical development of oncolytic viruses. The team's deep regulatory knowledge and manufacturing experience leaves ImmVirX poised to emerge as leaders in oncolytic viruses," he said.
"I am confident their steady execution, compelling data and robust clinical strategy will translate to improved outcomes for cancer patients with high unmet need, including those with ovarian, colorectal and gastric cancer."
After completing the first human clinical trials, Dr McColl said there would likely be sufficient data to present the work to big pharmaceutical companies for a possible acquisition, like with Viralytics, but he would also consider raising more private funding to go through phase two trials, or purse an initial public offering.
"The oncology space is the most important space in big pharma. It generates the most revenue and it has double-digit growth forecasts." he said.
THE WAY TO A BIGGER BRAIN – Be Healthy Now
Posted on February 13, 2006 by aahnmarketing
If you want to be smarter – and stave off aging to boot – meditation may be the answer. Ongoing research at Harvard, Yale and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has found that meditating can alter the physical structure of your brain.
Brain scans of meditators found that they had increased thickness in the parts of the brain that deal with attention and processing sensory input. Typically, the cortex of the brain gets thinner as we get older, but in those who meditated this area increased with age and the length of time that the person had practiced meditation.
This means that regular meditation could help to slow, or even reverse, mental decline. Lead researcher Sara Lazar concluded "Our data suggest that meditation practice can promote cortical plasticity in adults in areas important for cognitive and emotional processing and well-being".
The findings were presented during the annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience last November. The results were well received by the 14,000 visiting scientists, showing an increased acceptance and appreciation within the scientific community. Perhaps one day soon doctors will prescribe meditation for their patients as part of their health care protocol.
Validation of the Reflux Disease Questionnaire for a Turkish Population | Journal of Gastrointestinal and Liver Diseases
Sadık Hançerlioğlu
Department of Internal Medicine Nursing, Ege University School of Nursing, İzmir, Turkey
Hançerlioğlu S, Bor S. Validation of the Reflux Disease Questionnaire for a Turkish Population. JGLD [Internet]. 18Jun.2021 [cited 19Jan.2022];30(2):193-7. Available from: https://jgld.ro/jgld/index.php/jgld/article/view/3309
Validation of the Reflux Disease Questionnaire for a Turkish Population
Sadık Hançerlioğlu ,
DOI 10.15403/jgld-3309
Background and Aims: Achieving the correct diagnosis and therapeutic success in gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) depends on the patient's self-assessment. Therefore, valid and reliable patient-reported questionnaires are very important. When designing such measurement tools, researchers should focus on their validity, reliability, sensitivity, and, applicability. The reflux disease questionnaire (RDQ) largely meets these important requirements. This study aims to examine The RDQ's psychometric characteristics for the Turkish society (RDQ TR ) and its validity in symptoms' evaluation.
Methods: The sample of this study comprised 81 patients who were admitted to our institution, GERD study group outpatient clinic. The data collection forms used in the study were the case report forms and RDQ. Three weeks after the first interview, 30 patients were re-interviewed by the phone and the RDQ was re-administered. For the validity studies of the scale, language validity, content validity, and construct validity studies were used, and for the reliability studies, internal consistency and test-retest reliability methods were used.
Results: The content validity index of form was 0.95 (0.93-0.98). The performed factor analysis indicated 3 factors with an eigenvalue over 1.0. Those factors were responsible for 77.66% of the variance. The Cronbach's alpha values were 0.88 for regurgitation sub-dimension, 0.91 for dyspepsia sub-dimension, 0.86 for heartburn sub-dimension, and 0.92 overall. Intraclass correlation coefficient value of the scale was 0.94.
Conclusions: Our study highlights that the RDQ TR is reliable, valid, and responsive to change in Turkey patients with GERD symptomatology.
