Senior Care in Atlantic County, NJ - Senior In-home Care Services | CareLinx
215 caregivers found near Atlantic County
Atlantic County, NEW-JERSEY
Ronnella W.
If I had to pick one thing that makes me a great caregiver I would say it's my work ethic. I believe in being punctual and going above and beyond the duties required of me. I became a caregiver because of my mother, she had diabetes and needed care in the end of her life. I wanted to be the one to take care of her so I went to school to become a CNA. What I enjoy most about being a caregiver is taking care of people. I'm mostly proud of the relationships that I've built over the years, especially with the families of the people I have taken care of.
I am a caregiver with 3 yrs of experience in the healthcare field. I possess good oral communication skills and can effectively communicate with my clients, family members, and healthcare professionals. My caring nature, friendly persona, professional training, and experience insure that I provide my clients with the best care. My skills are as followed; Adept in performing health care functions expected of a caregiver: take vitals, medication assistance, record and manage side effects, range of motion, reporting problems and keeping family members informed of what is happening Perform personal care activities: toileting, hygiene, dressing, shaving mouth care, hair care, and nail care ambulations ( walkers, wheel chair and transferring devices; hoyer and sit to stand) Skilled at performing various homemaking activities like meal preparation, cleaning, laundry, changing bed linens, and other housekeeping task Ensure clients needs are met in an enriching and dignified manner.
Jobs » Associate Research
Jobs 1 - 10 of 14568
There are 15,714 Associate Research-related jobs on Neuvoo India. Submit your application now and get the best job.
Examples of corresponding job vacancies are Charter, Greenhouse Worker, Senior Consultant Insurance, Senior Electrical Engineer, Weigher, Production or Millwright. These job vacancies are often related to industries like Education, IT, Management, Services, Communication or Sales.
Regions with the largest number of job vacancies related to 'Associate Research' are Maharashtra, Karnataka, Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh or Telangana. Cities with the highest number of hits are Mumbai, Bangalore, New Delhi, Gurgaon, Noida or Chennai.
Top employers offering Associate Research jobs
Firms with the most Associate Research-related jobs are Smile Group, City Innovates Pvt. Ltd., Infoseek Software Systems, FirstData, infostretch solution pvt ltd or Sule Overseas Enterprises.
Neuvoo India is the biggest job site in the country with over 1636066 vacancies available, 15,714 of which are Associate Research-related.
Job Description. ACRHEM (DRDO Sponsored Project) is inviting applications from eligible candidates for Research Associate, purely on temorcpis, in the DRDO projects at the Center. No. of Post...
Job Description. Analytical methods development for various formulations such as. Assay, RS, Dissolution, multimedia study of innovator & exhibit samples. Perform excipent compati...
Knowledge of Biotech Studies. Exp of Working In R & D Lab. Salary INR 3,00,000. 6,00,000 P.A. Industry. Functional Area. , , , ,. Role Category R&D. Role Bio Technical Research Associate...
Salary. Not Disclosed by Recruiter. Industry. Pharma. Biotech. Clinical Research. Functional Area... Medical, Healthcare, R&D, Pharmaceuticals, Biotechnology. Role Category. R&D. Role. Research Scientist...
Your job will be to assist the Director, Research in compiling the data, analyzing it and making the... You might also be called upon to interact with some clients to explain your research findings to them...
Salary. Not Disclosed by Recruiter. Industry. Functional Area. ,. Role Category Other. Role Research Associate. Employment Type. Permanent Job, Full Time. Desired Candidate Profile. Experience...
Required Experience. 2 years Preference. Male candidate. Education Qualification. M.Pharm. (Pharmaceutics). Job Profile. Candidate should have experience in NDDS Product Developme...
Interact with research scientists and research associates, collect and manage greenhouse data, provide... Supporting greenhouse operations in implementing research management system to plant production...
Job Description. Walk in Drive. Chennai for Associate Research Analyst on 27th & 28th July 2017 from 3... Participates in specialist interpretation in the form of research, analysis, and writing to support the...
JRF, RA & Other Posts. DST Mahamana Centre of Excellence for Climate Change Research, Institute of... data along with qualification, research experience etc. (supported by self attested documents) by speed...
Trainiee Research Associate
BRSP Consultancy |
Job Description. Preparation of financial models to include individual sell side analyst financial models after research work for earning results and other event update on various stocks listed...
Newest 'hypothesis-testing' Questions - Mathematics Stack Exchange
This tag is for questions on hypothesis testing in statistics, including questions about constructing or setting up a test, selecting an appropriate test for a particular application, and computing test statistics.
Rao Score test and Neyman-Rao test
I've got the Laplace location/scale model where $X_1,...,X_n$ are iid random variables with common density \begin{equation} p_{\theta,\eta}(x)=\frac{1}{2\eta}e^{-|\frac{x-\theta}{\eta}|}. \end{...
EDIT: My apologies, I had a coding error. I accidentally used the same standard deviation for both samples. Now that I fixed that, both the normal and Student's confidence intervals are stupidly ...
When reading statistics literature, they provide the assumptions of when specific tests/methodologies can be used. Take factor analysis as an example; you may find this inside a paper: "Generally ...
Minimum required sample size and confidence interval of the difference
I have calculated a minimum sample size required to compare difference between two independent proportions using various online sources e.g. this one or G*Power software. Here are the details: P1: 0....
Is my answer to this Poisson distribution story problem correct?
Andreia's secretary makes random errors in his work at an average rate if 1.7 errors every 100 words. (a) Andreia offers the secretary a choice of one of two bonus schemes, based on a sample of 40 ...
poisson-distribution binomial-distribution hypothesis-testing
hypothetical test [closed]
Suppose that $X$ is a sample of size 1. Given a significance level $\alpha\le 0.1$, derive a UMP test of the following hypotheses $[H_0: X\sim N(0,1)\ vs.\ H_1: X\sim DE(1/2)]$, where $DE(\lambda)$ ...
傅佳灿
Testing the generation of a sequence of zeros and ones
I am given a sequence of $40$ ones and zeros, and I have to test whether the sequence is random (in the problem this is said to be equivalent to testing the null hypothesis that all ${40 \choose n_1}$ ...
probability statistics binomial-distribution hypothesis-testing
most powerful test of exponential distribution
It is assumed that X, the lifetime (in hours) of a light bulb, follows an exponential distribution with the following probability density function: f(x; λ) = 1/λ(e^-x/λ) if x > 0 or 0 otherwise (a) ...
user1042713
hypothesis testing with central limit theorem
Company A claims that the average number of biscuits in a tin of BiskO shortbread biscuits is $27$. The fair business regulators believes that the Company A's claims are inaccurate, and that the true ...
statistics hypothesis-testing central-limit-theorem
Hypothesis testing for the probability of a graph being conected
Given the probability of every two nodes being connected, write a simulation to estimate the probability of a connected graph. Then use hypothesis testing to justify the result. I can write a Monte ...
statistics hypothesis-testing simulation
Determine c so hypothesis test has level of significance α= 0.05
I have the solution but can't find an explanation that makes sense to me so I'm hoping someone here can explain it to me. Question: Consider a sample with just one observation $X$ that is assumed to ...
statistics probability-distributions hypothesis-testing
UMP test-why is it wrong to check it this way?
So, I want to know if a test is a UMP test. for: $ θ_0=3 $ $ θ_1<θ_0 $ using neyman-pearson lemma suppose I got something like this where our estimator for $ θ_0 $ is the mean and for some ...
How to test randomness of assigning the incoming call to the call center employees?
We have the call center with 6 employees in total. We can't predict when each of them will work, however we would like to ensure that the employees are chosen at random to pick up incoming calls. How ...
Hypothesis testing on Probability of False Alarm using Neyman-Pearson
We have binary hypothesis testing problem as follows: $H_1$ (signal presence) : $y = s + n$ $H_0$ (signal absence) : $y = n$ Without loss of generality, to simplify the problem, let s be a constant ...
TNN.309
asked May 2 at 5:43
Confused about interpretation and intuition behind Mcnemar's Test
I've always been under the impression that Mcnemar's Test is for paired categorical data, just like paired t-tests are for paired continuous data. However, I was looking at the Wikipedia article for ...
asked Apr 30 at 1:54
What is β in statistics
A simple hypothesis test question. But, while reading the following hypothesis test, I am stuck: H0: β = 0 Ha: β ≠ 0 The answer shows that the null hypothesis represent there is no linear ...
Hypothesis Testing and Rejection Region Problem
Assume $X_i$, where $i=1,..,n$, is random sample from normal distribution $N(\mu, \sigma^2)$, where both $\mu$ and $\sigma^2$ are unknown. Suppose we use $C = \frac{\bar X_n}{S_n} \gt k$ as the ...
hypothesis testing and properties(biasedness/unbiasedness, consistency) of the OLS estimator
statistics expected-value regression variance hypothesis-testing
asked Apr 21 at 11:34
Doubt regarding null hypothesis rejection in Z-test
We have been learning about Z-test for null hypothesis rejection. It goes as follows: Suppose $X_1,\ X_2,\ \ldots, X_n$ are samples from $X\sim N(\mu, \sigma^2)$ distribution with sample mean $\...
Power function for Gamma Distribution
I'm trying to find a power function for a $X_1, ...,X_n$ ~ Exp($\theta$), where $H_0: \theta\geq \theta_0$ vs $H_a: \theta<\theta_0$; where, for test statistic X ~ $\sum X_i$, we would reject the ...
trierar
Power and size of a statistical hypotheses testing
I would like to know here on the page 132 why the pink (the power of the test) is vertically aligned with the blue (the Type I error). What is the intuition behind it ? Also, how the formula (7.2) in ...
Why do we consider a critical region instead of individual values? Why does the alternative hypothesis determine which tail to consider for rejection?
Setup: Suppose a coin is tossed 8 times and I'm trying to determine whether the coin is biased in favour of landing on heads. Let $X$ be the number of heads in 8 tosses, so $X \sim B(8,p)$. Conducting ...
asked Apr 17 at 1:03
Unit-Root Test Alternative Hypothesis - Dickey-Fuller Test
For a simple autoregressive model satisfying ${p_t = \phi_0 + \phi_1 p_{t-1} +\epsilon_t}$, when you want to test whether the series has a unit root (non-stationary) why is the alternative hypothesis ...
statistics statistical-inference hypothesis-testing time-series stationary-processes
asked Apr 12 at 1:16
Determining whether a (non normally distributed) population has a smaller mean than other
I am twisting my career towards Data Science and, after some time refreshing my statistics base, I realized that statistics is one of the fields in which people tend to missunderstand more the basis, ...
statistics statistical-inference hypothesis-testing central-limit-theorem
Testing first and seconds moments properties of vector generated from N-dim normal distribution
Suppose we have random sample of size T of a real-valued vector $z_t$, which we can assume to have N-dim normal distribution with 0 mean and $I_N$ variance under the null hypothesis. We want to test ...
hamamuta
Hypothesis Testing in Python: One sample T Test without Standard deviation
Update So the way I solved the question was through taking one sample of the weights array like so sample = np.random.permutation(weights) Then calculate the ...
probability statistics problem-solving hypothesis-testing
Background: There are 5 product categories for my digital business. And, there are different sets of rules with different weightings of metrics to design product ranking for different category pages ...
user8448815
Threshold in Neyman-Pearson
Suppose we need to decide between two hypotheses $H_1: P=P_1$ and $H_2: P=P_2$, based on a single sample $X\sim P$ taking values from $\mathbb{X}=\{-1,0,1\}$, where $P_1(-1)=1/2, P_1(0)=1/4, P_1(1)=1/...
asked Mar 25 at 13:11
Why don't you calculate individual probabilities in hypothesis testing?
Lets say there is a coin being flipped, and someone thinks that the coin is biased so that the probability of getting heads is less than 1/2. If they flip a coin 10 times, and get heads twice, I ...
probability binomial-distribution hypothesis-testing
Light Bulb hypothesis testing
One claims that the life time distribution of its Everyday light bulbs is exponential with mean 1000 hours. If you test a random sample of 4 light bulbs and find that the average life time is 900 ...
statistics solution-verification statistical-inference hypothesis-testing exponential-distribution
Neyman-Pearson and Stein's Lemma
Consider the following problem. Let $X_1,\dots, X_n$ be i.i.d. $\sim P$ taking values from $\mathbb{X}=\{-1,0,1\}$. Consider the hypothesis test $H_1: P=P_1$ vs $H_2: P=P_2$, where $P_1(-1)=1/2, P_1(...
asked Mar 23 at 0:24
Sampling trading strategy returns
I want to test annual returns of a stock trading strategy, particularly its skewness (using the D'Agostino's skewness test). I have monthly prices of 20 years, but that means I only have 20 annual ...
Determining whether two samples are from the same distribution
The context for my question is that we have two sets of data which are of the same family of distributions, both normal, both exponential, etc. If they were both normally distributed, a difference of ...
probability statistics hypothesis-testing data-analysis
A question about the test statistic for testing the difference in two population proportions
For independent samples $X_1,\cdots,X_n $from $\textit{Bernoulli }(p_1)$ and $Y_1,\cdots,Y_m$ from $\textit{Bernoulli }(p_2)$,where $n$ and $m$ are large. Then,the Central Limit Theorem tell us $\frac{...
probability-theory statistical-inference hypothesis-testing
asked Mar 6 at 13:19
Distributed Hypothesis Testing--reference question
If you don't know the correct keyword, you can still miss a key literature search: I have a problem in distributed Bayesian detection with a serial (or tandem) network topology. The probability ...
probability-theory hypothesis-testing data-analysis bayesian-network
How to find Type 2 error without the Normal distribution?
If I have an example as follows with 280 cases studied of a new test developed on animals: true state of the animal non-infected by virus X infected by virus X non-infected by virus X 131 15 ...
probability probability-theory statistics probability-distributions hypothesis-testing
doudoudreams
LR-test for a Pareto$(1,\beta)$-distribution
Let $X_1,\ldots,X_n$ be a sample from a Pareto$(1,\beta)$-distribution with density $$f(x \mid \beta) = \begin{cases} \beta x^{-(\beta+1)} & x \ge 1 \\ 0 & \, \text{else} \end{cases}$$ We test ...
asked Feb 19 at 21:00
Hypothesis testing for Third and Fourth Moment
Is there any way to test for the null hypothesis that the third $\left(\frac{\sum_{i=1}^n(Y_i-\bar{Y})^3}{n}\right)$ and the fourth $\left(\frac{\sum_{i=1}^n(Y_i-\bar{Y})^4}{n}\right)$ moments are 0? ...
What is the common $t$-test for $H_0: \mu = \mu_0 \ \text{ and } \ H_A:\mu > \mu_0$?
The following remark came up in my lecture: Let $X_1,X_2,\ldots,X_n$ be normally distributed with known variance $\sigma^2 > 0$. For testing $$H_0: \mu = \mu_0 \ \text{ and } \ H_A:\mu > \mu_0.$...
How to determine power of a test of the difference of two binomial proportions?
Consider a sample of 800 adults with wrist fracture where 400 are provided an operative treatment and 400 are provided physiotherapy only. Outcome of interest is whether the wrist is fully healed ...
probability statistics probability-distributions hypothesis-testing
Statistic Mann-Whitney Table how to calculate the table
In this link there's a tutorial about Mann-Whitney: https://www.real-statistics.com/non-parametric-tests/mann-whitney-test/ . It uses critical values of U test that is given in a table. However, it ...
statistics hypothesis-testing p-value
asked Feb 15 at 8:13
Information Theoretic View of Stein's Lemma
Suppose $P$ and $Q$ are two probability distributions on a, say finite alphabet set $\mathbb{X}$. Suppose that a Statistician has to decide between $P$ and $Q$ based on an i.i.d. sample $X_1,X_2,\dots,...
Heart Health - articles and news about Heart Health page 5
Millions of South Africans take a daily fish oil supplement because they believe the omega-3 fatty acids it contains benefits their heart health. Up until now, scientific studies on this topic have been contradictory, but new research finds that taking fish oil supplements every day can improve the heart health of seniors in just 12 weeks! Read on for the full findings, as published in Phys... ››› more
A recent study published in the online edition of the journal Neurology has uncovered the five healthy habits that can cut a woman's stroke risk in half. While other studies have looked at single stroke risk factors, only a few have examined the combined effects of a healthy lifestyle on stroke risk, according to study author Susanna Larsson, a researcher at the Karolinska Institute in Sweden. ... ››› more
If you're one of those people who puts salt on everything you eat, you're probably wondering if eating a healthy diet counteracts the effects of eating too much salt on your blood pressure. A new study published in the journal Hypertension says no… To arrive at this conclusion, researchers from several institutions, including Imperial College Lonon and Northwestern University, looked at the d... ››› more
You know that eating breakfast every day contributes to a more nutritionally complete diet higher in vitamins and minerals, improves concentration and performance in the boardroom and boosts endurance to engage in physical. Well, that's not all - a daily morning meal can also ward off stroke, according to new research from Japan's Osaka University. Keep reading for more on the relationship betw... ››› more
As it turns out, the flu vaccine does a lot more than reduce the risk of the flu - it also reduces the risk of death in heart failure patients. This is according to a new study from the American College of Cardiology. The study found that people with heart failure who got an annual flu vaccine slashed their risk of dying during flu season by 50%. What's more the benefit lingered through the res... ››› more
Best Yoga For Chronic Back Pain 2019 • Treating Back Pain
Best Yoga For Chronic Back Pain 2020
If you're suffering from chronic lower back pain, taking steps to reduce your anxiety and stress can go miles in relieving your pain. "For some people …
5 Best Workouts For Chronic Pain If you have fibromyalgia, exercise can improve your quality of life and reduce pain The Editors of Prevention November 16 …
Welcome to Chronic Pain Site! While you are visiting our forums as a guest, you can view threads and many other sections of our site. However, if you …
Can complementary and integrative health approaches such as acupuncture, massage, or spinal manipulation help you manage chronic pain? Find out in this …
A pinched nerve in your back can cause a lot of discomfort and slow down your day. By doing these five simple exercises daily you can prevent having a pinched
Using essential oils for joint pain has become quite popular. Before getting into what essential oils are best for treating joint pain, we first must define
Related: Back Pain Swimming Therapy
Cure Lower Back Pain Right Side Right side abdominal pain is commonly caused by conditions such as appendicitis, gallstones, kidney stones, constipation, ectopic pregnancy, ovarian cyst … How to fix lower back pain without surgery or shots by Dr. Jolie Bookspan, sports medicine and extreme physiology researcher, The Fitness Fixer and … Back Pain Relief – Avoid the common mistakes made
01.01.2016 · Chronic low back pain (CLBP) affects millions of people worldwide, and appears to be increasing in prevalence. It is associated not only with …
If your discomfort in the back is started by typical motions like bending or twisting, it can be a result of a slipped disc or a joint issue of the back. It could likewise be due to muscle pull in the back. Muscular discomfort is amongst the typical back pain causes, which can occur while trying to bring a hefty weight. Discomfort that is continuous around the upper body or mid back location could be the result of a broken rib. The reason can be an injury or lengthy collection osteoporosis, which damages the bones. Kidney infections could also create pain in the mid-back. The signs and symptoms are discomfort as well as discomfort throughout passing away of urine.
Related: Physical Therapy Benefits For Lower Back Pain
Best Yoga For Chronic Back Pain 2020 5 out of 5 based on 323 ratings.
Back Pain And Muscle Aches Accutane: To the Brothers of the Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia Ancient Free and Accepted Masons. First, let me congratulate the Installation Team, led by M.W. Carson Jackson. The next step in treatment is isotretinoin, a naturally occurring derivative of vitamin ...
Best Cure For Chronic Back Pain: Sounds a lot like my case but earlier in life. I put up with pain for a long time before I found a compassionate and well schooled urologist who diagnosed ... 5 Best Workouts For Chronic Pain If you have fibromyalgia, exercise can improve your qualit...
Natural Home Remedies Back Pain: altmedicine.about.com Sep 29, 2016 ... Natural Remedies for Radiation Side Effects ... swallowing; urinary and bladder changes (such as incontinence and pain during urination). More » Back Pain Relief Ireland montreal.about.com Sep 10, 2014 ...
Sitting Positions To Relieve Back Pain: Safe Exercises For Back Pain Back Pain Relief Web Md backandneck.about.com The facet joints are often the cause of spine pain. Learn about the anatomy of … Depiction of a spine with spondylosis and facet joint hypertrophy. Facet joint hypertrop...
Get Relief From Back Pain: May 17, 2016 ... Do not bend, lift, or sit in a soft, low chair; the pain will get worse. ... (Do not sleep with a heating pad on the back. ... Some physical therapy experts believe that moist heat penetrates more deeply and gives better relief of pa...
Spinal Back Pain Relief: Feb 20, 2017 ... But unless you do some spine tuning — strengthening your back through .... Treatment: Muscle relaxants provide short-term pain relief from ... Mar 12, 2017 ... Extremely detailed guide to back pain science, diagnosis, trea...
Related: Dr Oz Natural Remedies For Back Pain
Filed Under: Back Pain Relief Tagged With: abdominal pain, American Chiropractic Association, best mattress, Bulging Protruding, chronic back pain, CLBP, Cure Lower Back Pain Right Side Right, joint pain, Jolie Bookspan, kidney stones, low back pain, Muscular Muscle, Pain Discomfort, pain medications, Relieve Lower Back Pain, Ruptured Burst Fractured, sports medicine
Around the world on World Cancer Day | UICC
A big thank you from the team at UICC to everyone - indviduals, survivors, caregivers, organisations, businesses, governments, schools and communities - who took part, gave their time and spoke up for a cancer-free world.
World Cancer Day starts trending across Australia.
#worldcancerday is now trending in #Sydneyhttps://t.co/PaPc7kivTe pic.twitter.com/QyPsp7Ck0F
— Trendsmap Sydney (@TrendsSydney) February 3, 2019
UICC partner and Australia's largest cancer care provider, the Icon Group shares their 'I Am and I Will' messages.
Stand up to cancer this #WorldCancerDay. We are Icon and we will support our patients every step of the way. #IconGroup #IAMandIWILL pic.twitter.com/10f5cHvP8q
— Icon Group (@IconGroupAU) February 3, 2019
Celebrations and commerations by UICC member, the Schwe Yaung Hnin Si Foundation, take place in Yangon.
The Singapore Cancer Society invites over 30 celebrities, partners and influencers to join in and share their 'I Am and I Will' commiment.
The honourable Prime Minister Narendra Modi tweets out his support.
Students from Sharafuddin School have a different type of assembly on World Cancer Day.
World Cancer Day's 'I Am and I Wil' messages accompanies commuters on their bus rides thanks to the Cancer Society of Maldives.
Special appreciation to @portsmv for giving us the opportunity to display these special messages made for #WorldCancerDay on their screens.#IamAndIWill #CSMwcd19 pic.twitter.com/Z2Jxi4nH7p
— Cancer Society of Maldives (@CancerSocietyMV) February 5, 2019
Geneva raises the World Cancer Day flag in the early hours of the morning.
Our friends and forces of nature, Lauren Mahon and Deborah James, hosts a special World Cancer Day episode on their smash BBC podcast, You, Me & the Big C.
The Independent reminds Britons the important things to remember on World Cancer Day.
The most important things to remember on World Cancer Day https://t.co/BvKlIyT576 pic.twitter.com/IkXw8dRSVB
UICC President and HRH Princess Dina Mired spends World Cancer Day in Ghana.
In her first official visit to Africa as UICC President on #WorldCancerDay, Princess @dinamired will seek to further strengthen the commitment of high-level national authorities to increase support and funding of national #cancer control priorities. #IAmAndIWill pic.twitter.com/m2txQZ9R1J
— Union for International Cancer Control (@uicc) February 4, 2019
UICC member, Pink Drive partners with the City of Johannesburg for a day of physical activity, announcements and health checks.
A big thanks to @LancetLab_ZA for coming through today. MMC @mphophalatse1 getting her blood pressure checked #IAmAndIWill #WorldCancerDay ^NS pic.twitter.com/JxFUQWi1lE
— City of Joburg (@CityofJoburgZA) February 4, 2019
Qatar Airways takes World Cancer Day to the skies, supporting the day with their own social media messages.
A Ugandan cancer patient talks openly about the loss, uncertainty and financial hardship of cancer.
The trending continues in Venezuela.
#díamundialcontraelcáncer es ahora una tendencia en Venezuelahttps://t.co/nZyuAa1i78 pic.twitter.com/8K9DAHjzmd
— Trendsmap Venezuela (@TrendsVenezuela) February 4, 2019
The NHL gives us a heartfelt moment with a fan.
UICC partner, Varian rings the opening bell at the New York Stock Exchange and pays tribute to World Cancer Day.
Newsweek dives into the new campaign amd gets into the facts.
#WorldCancerDay 2019: Facts, theme and everything else you need to know https://t.co/kJQNiikgaX pic.twitter.com/dGF1hentY4
Musicians around the world gets behind the day.
And, World Cancer Day officially trends on Twitter.
For more information, please visit: www.worldcancerday.org(link is external)
Encouraging supporters around the world to show their inner hero and to add their voice to the day, World Cancer Day has launched its first Augmented Reality Facebook Filter. For more information, visitwww.worldcancerday.org/social-media-activity(link is external)
Critical Analysis Of Article Example | Study the Academy
A recent article collection in European Transport. Cooperation between a wide range of stakeholders is critical for.
If you study an analysis paper example, you will see that this type of academic paper consists of three main parts: introduction, body and conclusion. Critical.
Warren Buffett on the acquisition of ISCAR Metalworking In one of the earlier articles in our series, we identified six distinct sources of competitive advantages. This is the fifth article in the.
Here is a great article on how to write a winning critical analysis essay. For example, if it is a book, mention the book's title, the name of the author, and the.
As an example. While Paul's recent article Five Steps to Effective Branding and Marketing for Smaller Asset Managers does a great job of synopsizing the steps to his process, we wanted to dig.
This article is in response to the release of the U.S. Government. your business or entity while ensuring that you can run an organization securely, is critical. Examples are as simple as.
A critical analysis is an essay that evaluates another piece of writing. says," " the author thinks," and "the article states that" when referring to the. states his point solidly and simply, and unemotionally presents an example of an incorrect.
For example, Cdk6, which contributes mainly. Based on this theory, our DVC analysis offers objective measurement criterion.
As an example, Janse van Rensburg referred to South Africa's. The implementation of such programmes was critical, if businesses were serious about protecting their assets and profitability, while.
Jun 4, 2017. Finally, another way of saying a critical analysis is "Evaluation" essay or Review, and this article has links to sample essays to help you:.
It would be easy to work through this example and illustrate the steps I. our projects before they are published, and be more critical of visualisations we see published. Critical data analysis is.
To write an effective critique you must first be a critical reader. You must carefully analyze a writer's argument, What do you predict the article will cover? 2. example, when you go to your classroom, you assume your teacher will show up.
Assignment 6 is an exercise in referential-interpretive critical analysis and. The article used in the sample is "Two Views of the River," available in Assignment.
A critical review is much more than a simple summary; it is an analysis and evaluation of a book, Examine how the article is structured, the types of reasons or evidence used to support the. (For example: Is it a primary source or secondary.
Forbes' Natalie Wexler reports on her experience in one elementary school: In one second-grade classroom, for example, students thoughtfully. when they forgo short-term "critical thinking" programs.
Writing a critical review of a journal article can help to improve your research skills. The review article will provide background information for your analysis, as well as establishing that the research paper. Is the sample selection adequate?
For example. critical questions. They study outcomes in the 29 states that have adopted the standards, comparing them with states that did not. Taking advantage of the different timing in the.
S:TLC_ServicesGeneralOFFICE pprwkHow to Write a Critical Analysis.docx. How to Write a. example, does he use: pathos (appeal to emotion), logos ( appeal to reason/logic), &/or ethos (appeal to. the article appear? 2. Writing the.
When perception without critical analysis and time barriers coincide, the reality of rhetoric can be disparate. In this.
Introductory paragraph should be short enough. For example if you are writing a critical analysis for an article then the introduction may be one paragraph long.
Reading a book or article for a critical review:. A literature review is a type of critical review in which you analyze and evaluate. sample literature reviews.
Critical thinking has become normalised in my world. Just one example of how data can be abused. like to do would be to expose subjects to a series of articles in which that sort of critical.
Ours is a critical moment when we can either give-in to. The Urban Commons is an example of the mirage of objectivity. The.
mainly on critical analysis for written work, as nothing gains or loses marks. read around the subject, using reputable sources, such as articles from the best-. example, if you think that a piece of research is based on interviews with too.
Kristi Elle Jemtegaard, Richmond The May 4 news articles "House Democrats give Barr deadline. a lesson in etiquette".
Nov 21, 2018. Discover How To Write A Critical Analysis Essay Using Examples To Impress. In this article, we have provided the best approach to help you.
This article was originally published on The Conversation, an independent and nonprofit source of news, analysis and commentary. in domestic kitchens is critical in the prevention of diseases.
Electronic Healthcare Records (EHR) and Hospital Information Systems (HIS) are terms that cover several different clinical and administrative solutions, spanning from smaller department specific systems, to larger solutions integrating several departments and/or hospital information systems.
We have a lot of experience both in HIS and EHR, integrating existing proprietary databases as well as data generated by medical instruments together into standardized storage streams and making them available in a central HIS or EHR. Judex is a vendor independent developer and as such all development is done with open standards like HL7 or DICOM.
Here are some examples of EHR systems developed by Judex:
MI-ro is a modular system used by anesthesia and surgical departments for a multitude of tasks such as a quality assurance tool for anesthesia, registration of time and resource expenditure, surgical scheduling and processing and semi-automatic electronic anesthetic charting.
DagKir is a ward system aimed at ambulatory surgery optimizing the whole patient process, from the beginning to the end, and assuring the quality of communication and information between the patient and the hospital staff.
Academic Partners and Advisors – Transformative Technology Lab
Academic Partners and Advisorsadmin2017-11-20T03:52:54+00:00
Dr. Nathan Munn
Dr. Po-Jang (Brown) Hsieh
Emeritus Professor of Anesthesiology and PsychologyS
Associate Director of the Center for Consciousness Studies at the University of Arizona in Tucson,
Stuart is an Emeritus Professor of Anesthesiology and Psychology, and Associate Director of the Center for Consciousness Studies at the University of Arizona in Tucson, Arizona. A full-time clinical anesthesiologist, he also organizes the well-known interdisciplinary conference Toward a Science of Consciousness, and serves on the Editorial Board of the Journal of Consciousness Studies.
In medical school, Stuart became interested in microtubules, protein structures which organize intra-cellular activities. Struck by their lattice structure and seeming intelligence, Stuart and his colleagues later developed a theory of microtubules as information processing devices — as self-organizing molecular computers inside cells, for example supporting consciousness in brain neurons. In 1987 he authored Ultimate Computing: Biomolecular Consciousness and Nanotechnology, which closed with a Singularity-like vision of large microtubule arrays into which human consciousness could be downloaded and preserved.
But while microtubule-level processing immensely increased the brain's potential computational capacity, Stuart came to believe computation per se failed to solve the problem of conscious experience. Having also studied quantum-level mechanisms of anesthesia, he became enamored of quantum approaches to consciousness. In the early 1990s he teamed with Nobel Laurate Sir Roger Penrose to develop the controversial Penrose-Hameroff Orch OR model of consciousness based on quantum computation in microtubules within neurons. More recently, Stuart developed the conscious pilot, a theory supportive of Orch OR involving spatiotemporal envelopes of dendritic synchrony moving through the brain as a conscious agent, a concept similar to certain AI approaches of executive 'bubbles of awareness' moving through computational manifolds.
Most recently, he has become a pioneer and advocate for the use of transcranial ultrasound to alter human cognition. Beginning with a pioneering pilot study on mood, he branched out to highlight the emerging research field at his influential conference. He is involved with driving key academic and commercial exploration of this emerging technology.
In addition to writing Ultimate Computing (Elsevier), Stuart co-edits the Towards a Science of Consciousness book series for MIT Press, and appeared in the surprise hit film What the Bleep!?. He has published 140+ peer reviewed articles. Stuart earned his B.S. in Chemistry at the University of Pittsburgh in 1969, and his M.D. at Hahnemann Medical College in Philadelphia in 1973.
Professor, Department of Developmental & Cell Biology
Shin is the Director of the Laboratory for Mind-Body Signaling and Energy Research, and holds full professor appointments in the Department of Developmental & Cell Biology and the Department of Biomedical Engineering at the University of California, Irvine. He is also a faculty member of the Susan Samueli Center for Integrative Medicine, and the Interdepartmental Graduate Program in euroscience. Shin is the former Dean of the School of Biological Sciences and former Associate Vice Chancellor for Biomedical Initiatives at UC, Irvine.
Shin received his B.S. in Chemistry from the University of California, Davis, M.S. in Chemistry from San Diego State University, and Ph.D. in Biological Chemistry from UCLA. After postdoctoral training in the Department of Biochemistry & Biophysics at the University of California, San Francisco, he joined the faculty of the Thomas C. Jenkins Department of Biophysics at Johns Hopkins University in 1974. In 1983, he was appointed Chair of Biophysics, a position he held for over a dozen years. From 1992-1996, he was also the Associate Dean for Research and Graduate Studies of the School of Arts and Sciences, and the Head of the Graduate Board of the University. During his tenure at Johns Hopkins, Shin played an active role in the founding of several University-wide units and programs, including the Krieger Mind/Brain Institute, the Cardiovascular Mechanics Research Center, the Institute for Biophysical Research on Macromolecular Assemblies, and the Intercampus Graduate Program in Molecular Biophysics.
Shin is an internationally known expert on multidisciplinary studies on the regulation of the cellular structure and movement of normal and cancer cells. A specific area of expertise is the determination of the mechanism of action of natural products and cellular factors that affect the structure of cytoskeletal and contractile proteins and their role in cellular movement and signal transduction in muscle and nonmuscle cells.
Shin has published widely in leading international journals (e.g., Science, Nature, Cell, Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, USA), as well as more specialized publications in the basic (e.g., Journal of Biological Chemistry, Journal of Cell Biology) and applied biological and biomedical sciences (e.g., Cancer Research, Blood, Journal of Neurochemistry, Infection & Immunity, Journal of Biomedical Material Research). Related to his research in the above areas, he received a Research Career Development Award from the National Institutes of Health and was elected a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Sciences in 1982.
In 2008, he was appointed by the U.S. Secretary of Health and Human Services to a 4-year term on the National Advisory Council for Complementary and Alternative Medicine at the National Institutes of Health. Shin has served on the Cell Biology Public Advisory Panel of the National Institutes of Health (1980-1983), on the editorial board of the Journal of Receptor Research (1980-1984), and as the Biophysics Editor of the McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science and Technology (1992-1997). He was a Founder and Visiting Director of the Cell Biology Laboratory in the Institute of Biomedical Sciences at the Academia Sinica in Taiwan (1988-1990), a guest lecturer at the Institute of Biophysics and the Institute of Cell Biology of the China Academy of Sciences (1982), and President of the Society of Chinese Biophysics in America (1996-1998). Since his return to California in 1997, he has served as a member of the boards of directors of Orange County's Life Science Industry Council, the Orange County Biotechnology Alliance, and Southern California's Chinese American Professional Society.
Shin also has an extensive background and training in the Chinese martial arts and mind-body practices, and in Complementary and Alternative Medicine. Starting as a teenager in Hong Kong, he received advanced training from a dozen international leaders in different styles of Qigong (Wudang, Sum Yee, Pan Gu), Tai Chi (Chen and Yang Styles), and Chinese Martial Arts (e.g., Shaolin, White Crane, Wing Chun, Tai Shing Pek Kwar, Hsing I, Baqua). He has received such titles as a certified graduate of the Luk Chi Fu White Crane Kung Fu Research Institute (Hong Kong), Honorary President of the Tai Shing Pek Kwar Martial Arts Association (Hong Kong), highest degree black belt at the Chinese Martial Arts Training Center (Taipei), and 9th degree gold belt at the Wing Chun Academy of Maryland (Baltimore).
Professor of Psychology and Consciousness Studies,
Nathan A. Munn, M.D., is a tenured professor of Psychology and Consciousness Studies at Helena College University of Montana. For the past seven years he has taught Introduction to Consciousness Studies, a course he designed and is transferable within the Montana University System. His experience included being the Department Chair for General Education where he presided over the development of several academic programs. He created a degree in Mental Health Direct Care, training students to care for the mentally ill. He has lectured widely on consciousness and neuroscience. Current research interests include recovery from mental illness and suicide prevention from an Existential Neuroscience theory.
Clinical Professor of Psychiatry and Global Health Sciences
He is also a consultant with the Center for Constitutional Rights, Reprieve and other international NGO's that work with torture survivors. Locally he works to promote and enhance the health and wellness of refugee, displaced, and immigrant populations from the Middle East,North Africa and South Asia and has established a community-based Mental Health Treatment Programs to support these communities.
Dr. Ghannam specializes in working with chronic illness, including chronic pain and cancer. He also works and does research in the area of Global Health and Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, with a commitment to health justice globally and locally. Dr. Ghannam specializes in treating complex syndromes utilizing a broad spectrum of neuro-therapies, including neuro-feedback, to promote neuro-plasticity and optimal brain functioning. Dr. Ghannam received his PhD and MSc from the University of California at Berkeley and completed his Post-Doctoral Fellowship at Stanford University.
Visiting professor at Riken Neurosciences Institute in Japan
Peter has a long and distinguished involvement in the area of neuropsychiatry, near-death studies and sleep disorders. He is a Senior Lecturer at the Institute of Psychiatry, Kings College, London; and a visiting professor at Riken Neurosciences Institute in Japan.
Peter graduated from Trinity College, Cambridge University and subsequently trained in General Medicine, Neurophysiology, and Psychiatry rapidly becoming an authority in the areas of Neuropsychiatry, Epilepsy and Sleep. He became the head of the Neurophysiology, Sleep and Epilepsy Unit at the Institute of Psychiatry & Maudsley Hospital, which he ran for twenty years. He has a longstanding interest in brain function, the relationship of the mind and the brain, and the "problem" of consciousness. He has an extensive research record and has published over 240 papers in medical and scientific journals on brain function and also several books.
Peter Fenwick is considered a world authority in the area of Neuroscience. Peter is a member of The British Society for Clinical Neurophysiology, The EEG Society, The Royal College of Psychiatrists, The Research Panel on Death and Dying (Chairman, 1980), The American Epilepsy Association, The Association of British Clinical Neurophysiologists, The Medical and Scientific Network (Chairman, 1987), The British Neuropsychiatry Association, The European Association for the Study of Dreams (Chairman, 1988), E.C.N.E. Board Representative. The International Society for Neuroimaging in Psychiatry, The British Sleep Society, The Court of Electors, Royal College of Psychiatrists (1991 – 1996) Secretary of States Driver and Vehicle Licensing Agency Alcohol and Psychiatric sub-committees.
Peter lectures widely in England, on the Continent and in the United States on brain disorders, and has made many appearances on radio and television. He has published over 200 articles in scientific journals, and written a series of books with his wife Elizabeth: The Art of Dying (Continuum, 2008), Past Lives: An Investigation into Reincarnation Memories (Berkley, 2001), The Hidden Door: Understanding and Controlling Dreams (Berkley Publishing Group, 1999), The Truth in the Light: An Investigation of Over 300 Near-Death Experiences (Berkley Trade, 1997), and Living with Epilepsy (Bloomsbury, 1996). In addition, he is on or has served on the editorial board of the following journals: Journal of Neurology, Neurosurgery & Psychiatry (JNNP), Brain Topography, Journal of Epilepsy and Behaviour, Psychiatry Research, Neuroimaging, Journal of Consciousness, and Archives of Indian Psychiatry.
Assistant Professor, Neuroscience and Behavioral Disorders Program at Duke-NUS,
Director of the Brain & Consciousness Lab at Duke-NUS
Brown is an assistant professor in the Neuroscience and Behavioral Disorders Program at Duke-NUS, and director of their Brain & Consciousness Lab, an interdisciplinary research lab that studies the human neural bases of perception, attention, and consciousness with functional brain imaging (fMRI), neural decoding methods, and psychophysical techniques.
Brown researches how the human brain is able to perceive and experience the world. His areas of research include the 'problem' of consciousness, attention, object/surface perception, and visual form-motion integration. His goal is to keep investigating the cognitive and neural bases of object perception, attention, and visual awareness with whatever techniques are necessary. Brown is a graduate of Dartmouth College, and did his post-doc at MIT under Nancy Kanwisher.
Professor, Psychiatry UC San Diego,
Faculty Member, Behavioral Medicine SDSU/UCSD Joint Doctoral Program in Clinical Psychology
Paul is a professor of psychiatry in the behavioral medicine program at UC San Diego. He is an active faculty member in the Behavioral Medicine track of the SDSU/UCSD Joint Doctoral Program in Clinical Psychology, and the Health Behavior track of the SDSU/UCSD Joint Doctoral Program in Public Health. He is Director of the Clinical Research Biomarker Laboratory at UCSD, Co-Director of the Translational Research Technologies Division at the UCSD Clinical Translational Research Institute, and Director of Collaborative Research Program Development at the UCSD Center of Integrative Medicine.
Paul is a long-standing NIH-supported clinical investigator. He was the director of the UC San Diego General Clinical Research Center Core Laboratories program for 14 years, and has expertise in cardiovascular and sleep physiology, as well as psychoneuroimmune processes in wellness and in disease. His research interests include examining the effects of complementary and alternative medicine treatments for fatigue, pain, physical functioning, and PTSD. He has published more than 300 manuscripts and book chapters on these topics.
Paul is past president of the American Psychosomatic Society, former Associate Editor of the journals Health Psychology, Annals of Behavioral Medicine, and Journal of the Society for Integrative Oncology, and former Guest Editor of the journal Annals of Behavioral Medicine. He is currently on the Editorial Board of the journal Brain, Behavior and Immunity and an Associate Editor for the textbook Behavioral and Social Science in Medicine: Principles and Practice of Biopsychosocial Care (S. Waldstein, Ed.) (Springer).
Research Scientist, Cognitive Neurophysiology Research Group,
Founding Director, Nonduality Institute
PhD. FRSSAf, DFAPA, BN&NP, DSPE, Fellow of the Royal Society
Vernon M . Neppe MD, PhD(Med), FRSSAf, FFPsych(SA), FRCPC, MMed (Psych), DipABPN (Psychiatry; Geriatric Psychiatry; Forensic Psychiatry), DABFM, DABFE, DABPS (Psychopharmacology), FACFE, LMACFE, MB, BCh, DPsM , BA is Director of the Pacific Neuropsychiatric Institute in Seattle, WA, Adjunct Professor of Psychiatry and Human Behavior, St. Louis University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO and formerly Director, Division of Neuropsychiatry, University of Washington, Seattle, WA. Dr Neppe has contributed internationally in the specialties of Neuropsychiatry and Behavioral Neurology, Psychopharmacology, Forensic Psychiatry, Anomalistic Psychology and Epileptology. He also is an author, professional speaker, playwright and philosopher. His books on brain medications includeCry the Beloved Mind: A Voyage of Hope and Innovative Psychopharmacotherapy as well as The Psychology of Déjà Vu.
Dr Vernon Neppe founded the PNI in Seattle, WA in late 1992. Dr Neppe also does extensive forensicconsultations, and records review but does not do criminal medicolegal work.
Dr Neppe's unique, highly acclaimed self-help book on brain medications and social and medical issuesCry the Beloved Mind: A Voyage of Hope is aimed to educate and fascinate. It is written specifically for laypersons, and ranked 5 stars. You may feel you are there, discussing, talking to, and learning from an eminent physician. It teaches about brain medicines, a riveting adventure allowing understanding of depression, psychosis, seizures and brain firing, the way drugs work, and how caffeine, cigarettes and herbs interact. "Witnessing this master clinician at work fuels a realistic optimism about recovery" Michael Norden MD, Author. "Cry the Beloved Mind" makes a wonderful gift for loved ones.
Dr. Sigi Hale
Dr. Kathleen Noble
Dr. Jayanth Narayanan
Founding member of UCLA's Mindful Awareness Research Center (MARC)
Assistant Professor, Psychiatry department of UCLA's Semel Institute
T. Sigi Hale Ph.D. (Neuroscience) is a founding member of UCLA's Mindful Awareness Research Center (MARC) and an assistant professor in the psychiatry department of UCLA's Semel Institute. His interest in both art and science compelled him to explore how the brain transitions between states that are amenable to analytic-procedural versus integrative-creative forms of thought and experience. His work uses multiple methodologies (psychophysics, neurocognitive, EEG, fMRI, and TMS) and highlights the role of brain-state and brain-laterality dynamics in actualizing diverse cognitive abilities, and offers a new framework for understanding dimensionally defined disorders, such as ADHD. Outside of academia Sigi is a musician, martial artist, mindfulness practitioner, father, husband, and ardent supporter of transforming neuroscience knowledge into real-world applications that can help improve the state of humanity.
Director of the Institute for East-West Innovation
Lorraine is the dean of College of Imaging Arts and Sciences at Rochester Institute of Technology, and director of the Institute for East-West Innovation. Previously, she was the Swire Chair and Head of the School of Design at Hong Kong Polytechnic University. Under her leadership, the school emerged as one of the top 30 design schools in the world and one of the top four Asian design programs. Prior to joining Hong Kong Polytechnic, she was Director of the Industrial Design Program in the College of Architecture at the Georgia Institute of Technology (Georgia Tech), and served for several years at Ohio State University as professor of visual communication. A native of Pennsylvania, Justice obtained her BFA from Edinboro University and her master's in design and Ph.D. in communications from Ohio State. She has served in higher education for the past 20 years, in the areas of design research, product design and computer interface design.
Lorraine was awarded a National Endowment for the Arts grant on the integration of technology and design, a SIGGRAPH Educator's Grant, and a team Smithsonian Award in Education for the "Mission to Mars" exhibition developed in cooperation with the National Science Foundation and Apple Computer. She is a Fellow of the Industrial Design Society of America (IDSA) and has consulted with many leading corporations, including: Apple, CompuServe, Chemical Abstracts, CheckFree, Hedworth, Microsoft, NCR, and Lutron.
Lorraine was responsible for co-organizing the First China-USA Industrial Design Conference in Beijing, and the first Doctoral Education in Design Conference in Ohio, both well-attended international events. She also serves on the advisory board of the international design journals, Design Issues, Design Studies and The Design Journal, and is a jurist and reviewer for international conferences. She has twice served on the BusinessWeek/IDSA IDEA jury for best products, and is a past IDSA Design Foundation President. She has been named one of the top 40 influential designers by ID magazine, and is an IDSA Educator Award winner.
Professor of Consciousness, Biological Sciences, University of Washington
Kate is Professor of Consciousness Studies in the division of Biological Sciences at the University of Washington. From 2000-2008 she was the Director of the Robinson Center for Young Scholars and Professor of Women Studies at the University of Washington-Seattle. She served as the Assistant Director and Psychologist for the Early Entrance Program at UWS from 1989-2000, and maintained a private psychological practice in Seattle from 1986-2000.
She believes that a new manner of thinking is propelling a revolution in the mind sciences through the study of consciousness. At UW, Kate established a minor in consciousness studies, which she regards as a multidisciplinary field of inquiry in which big questions and bigger mysteries cannot be avoided. Her courses and research consider issues that are relevant to many areas of study, including psychology, biology, neuroscience, physics, and environmental science: What is the mind? How do dreams foster creativity, invention, and expanded awareness? Does consciousness survive physical eath? Do animals and plants have consciousness? How does meditation affect brain functioning and psychological growth? Her goal is to encourage students to become more reflective, compassionate, and self-aware, to make intellectual and personal connections with the material we study, and to achieve a reater sense of meaning and purpose in their lives. Most recently Kate has been investigating the conditions under which people's beliefs about consciousness and reality change and evolve.
Kate has authored Riding the Windhorse: Spiritual Intelligence and the Growth of the Self, The Sound of a Silver Horn: Reclaiming the Heroism in Contemporary Women's Lives, and co-edited Remarkable Women: Perspectives in Female Talent Development. She has published numerous research articles about psychological development and spirituality, early university entrance, and the psychological and social challenges confronting highly intelligent adolescents and adults.
She has supervised numerous undergraduate students' senior theses who received Mary Gates Undergraduate Research awards, Rhodes and Goldwater scholarships, and Dean's Medals. She has also supervised graduate students at the master's and doctoral levels in psychology, nursing, women studies, education, and music. Kate has lectured and consulted with universities, school districts, and organizations throughout the United States, Canada, and Australia about the psychological, social, emotional, and educational needs of intellectually talented children and adults.
Jayanth (Jay) Narayanan is an assistant professor in the NUS Business School, and his research focuses on physiological mechanisms in management, the social consequences of mindfulness, and understanding the psychological effects of power and status on people in interactions. He joined the Department of Management & Organization in 2006 with a PhD in organizational behavior from London Business School. His dissertation focused on understanding the psychological effects of power and status on people in interpersonal interactions. Jayanth is also on the editorial board of the Journal of Management Inquiry.
wheels, abrasive wheels, stones and mounted stone bits. URREA ... tungsten carbide tip with two cutting edges combines significant ..... matte black coating.
Tungsten carbide (chemical formula: WC) is a chemical compound (specifically, ... hardness such as cubic boron nitride and diamond powder, wheels, and compounds. ... Tungsten is Swedish for 'heavy stone'. ... 2C. Both compounds may be present in coatings and the proportions can depend on the coating method.
This process has been used typically to grind tungsten carbide HVOF coatings applied in accordance with AMS 2447 or AMS 2448 to high strength steels for...

If your child doesn’t sleep well, it can be a nightmare for the whole family. From babies to toddlers to teens, many children have ongoing sleep problems that make them more than just tired and grumpy. These issues may also cause learning and behavior problems. Some sleep problems – like obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) – can even be dangerous to your child’s health.
We can also help provide comfort and treatment if your child has other common sleep problems like nightmares, night terrors, and bedwetting.
No matter your child’s sleep problem, there’s help at Baystate Children’s Hospital Pediatric Sleep Medicine Program, part of the Baystate Regional Sleep Program. We offer a comprehensive program and approach to diagnose and treat your child. These describe our program in greater detail:
Your child’s sleep care team includes physicians who are board certified in pediatric pulmonology and neurology, plus highly trained sleep technologists. We have the region’s only pediatric neurologist who is certified in sleep medicine. Our Behavioral Health Services team helps evaluate children with insomnia. Our Developmental Pediatrics team may help evaluate younger patients (those under age 6).
When needed, our treatment team can include other Baystate Health pediatric specialists. These specialists provide services to treat conditions that may be causing your child’s sleep problem.
Your child’s doctor may recommend a sleep study, or polysomnogram, to help get to the root of the sleep problem. During the study, our medical staff will watch your child sleep, as this test records your child’s brain waves, heart rate, breathing, and more.
Baystate Children’s Hospital is the only facility in the western Massachusetts region to offer hospital-based, pediatric sleep studies, and the only one to offer sleep studies for babies and children under age three. These studies are performed in the Baystate Neurodiagnostics and Sleep Center, which offers special amenities for children, under the direction of board certified pediatric neurologists.
Your child will stay overnight in one of our private, home-like pediatric bedrooms or cribs. A parent can stay close by in a separate sleep room for family. Our staff will make you and your child as comfortable as possible throughout this painless process.
