Lego vrio Coursework Service fzhomeworkxmzd.ultimatestructuredwater.info
The vrio framework: an overview1 barney and hesterly (2006), describe the vrio framework as a good tool to examine the internalenvironment of a firm they stat. Barney and hesterly (2006), describe the vrio framework as a good tool to examine the internal environment of a firm they state that vrio stands for four questions one must ask about a resource or capability to determine its competitive potential. Valuation of lego group copenhagen business school msc finance and strategic management june 2013 author: lego s macro-environment will be analyzed with the pest-model, the vrio framework will be applied to supply an internal analysis and the chapter will be concluded with the swot-model. Shop best buy for gopro action cameras, mounts, drones and accessories compare features and pricing on new and bestselling models. Business analysis and strategy recommendation for vestas. Product features sleek train design made for speed works with all brio wooden railway sets. These do not have instructions but the additional photographs may help you jojo also has scans of the alternate box images here: alternative mode for lego castles by vrio » sun may 08, 2011 11:33 am.
Do you have a resource that is of competitive advantage meaning something that competitors cannot match vrio analysis is a good tool that helps us establish whether a resource is of competitive advantage or not. Strategy formulation from copenhagen business school in particular, we will discuss concepts such as the value chain, core capabilities, heterogeneous resources, and the vrio framework 5 videos, 6 readings, 4 practice lego's outsourcing journey reading: lego production practice. Mgmt3347 lego case study courtney logue 21150176 contents: company overview external analysis identifying the industry analysis of the general environment the vrio framework considers how rare, valuable, imitable and substitutable a capability is. Learning objectives learn about internal analysis understand resources, capabilities, and core competencies see how to evaluate resources, capabilities, and core competencies using vrio analysis. Our annual unlimited plan let you download unlimited content from slidemodel save hours of manual work and use awesome slide designs in your next presentation. Lego company limited company research & investing information find executives and the latest company news.
Lego group case study academic assist table of contents 1 23 vrio analysis the vrio framework for lego can be seen from table 3 shown below: table 3: vrio framework summarization for lego resource valuable rare. The key problems that lego faces are primarily external and internal issues externally the market affects how lego grows tremendously lego competes with the two big name toy brands, hasbro and mattel. The resource-based view (rbv) is a model that sees resources as key to superior firm performance if a resource exhibits vrio attributes, the resource enables the firm to gain and sustain competitive advantage.
For personal use: please use the following citations to quote for personal use: mla how lego stopped thinking outside the box and innovated inside the brick. Vrio analysis is an analytical technique briliant for the evaluation of the company's resources and thus the competitive advantage. Step 7: vrio analysis of lego case study analysis: vrio analysis for lego case study analysis case study identified the four main attributes which helps the organization to gain a competitive advantages step 11: recommendations for lego case study analysis case study (solution).
Free essays on vrio analysis for students use our papers to help you with yours 1 - 30.
Essays - largest database of quality sample essays and research papers on lego vrio. Lego company has been in the market for some time thus the new entrants have not greatly affected the. Created date: 1/17/2013 2:36:53 pm. Vrio analysis vrio analysis is an analytical technique briliant for the evaluation of company's resources and thus the competitive advantage.
Mmm001 - international strategic management strategic analysis of nintendo consulting team: vrio - nintendo's core competences relative to its competitors since the gaming industry has been an ever-developing industry that consists of numerous competitors. Explore vrio framework and learn to build competitive advantage from inside out. Lego company limited, hong kong baby products buying office find lego company limited business contact, office address, year of establishment, products & services from hk suppliers, manufacturers, exporters, importers & service companies. Le modèle s'appelle désormais vrio pour refléter l'intégration de la dimension organisationnelle v valeur la ressource ou compétence doit avoir de la valeur pour la firme parce qu'elle permet. Explain how the development of strategy at the lego group reflects the key characteristics of strategic documents similar to 90098796-lego-case-questions-and-answers lego case analysis (swot, vrio) lego report im final report lego bammc thesis a case study of the lego group.
Publications by Professor Graham Jackson - ePrints - Newcastle University
Browsing publications by Professor Graham Jackson.
Redefining nonmeasurable multiple myeloma using mass spectrometry 2022
Carfilzomib, lenalidomide, dexamethasone, and cyclophosphamide (KRdc) as induction therapy for transplant-eligible, newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients (Myeloma XI+): Interim analysis of an open-label randomised controlled trial 2021
Chromosome 1q21 abnormalities refine outcome prediction in patients with multiple myeloma - A meta-analysis of 2,596 trial patients 2021
Copy number evolution and its relationship with patient outcome—an analysis of 178 matched presentation-relapse tumor pairs from the Myeloma XI trial 2021
Early relapse after high-dose melphalan autologous stem cell transplant predicts inferior survival and is associated with high disease burden and genetically high-risk disease in multiple myeloma 2021
Safety of lenalidomide for maintenance treatment of patients with multiple myeloma following autologous stem cell transplantation 2021
BRAF and DIS3 Mutations Associate with Adverse Outcome in a Long-term Follow-up of Patients with Multiple Myeloma 2020
An enhanced genetic model of relapsed IGH-translocated multiple myeloma evolutionary dynamics 2020
Excluding myeloma diagnosis using revised thresholds for serum free light chain ratios and M-protein levels 2020
Microhomology-mediated end joining drives complex rearrangements and overexpression of MYC and PVT1 in multiple myeloma 2020
Predicting ultrahigh risk multiple myeloma by molecular profiling: an analysis of newly diagnosed transplant eligible myeloma XI trial patients 2020
Real-world assessment of the clinical impact of symptomatic infection with severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (COVID-19 disease) in patients with multiple myeloma receiving systemic anti-cancer therapy 2020
Renal outcome in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: Results from the UK NCRI Myeloma XI trial 2020
The relative importance of factors predicting outcome for myeloma patients at different ages: results from 3894 patients in the Myeloma XI trial 2020
Thrombosis in patients with myeloma treated in the Myeloma IX and Myeloma XI phase 3 randomized controlled trials 2020
A clinical prediction model for outcome and therapy delivery in transplant-ineligible patients with myeloma (UK Myeloma Research Alliance Risk Profile): a development and validation study 2019
Erratum to: Identification of multiple risk loci and regulatory mechanisms influencing susceptibility to multiple myeloma (Nature Communications, (2018), 9, 1, (3707), 10.1038/s41467-018-04989-w) 2019
Genetic correlation between multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukaemia provides evidence for shared aetiology 2019
Lenalidomide maintenance versus observation for patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (Myeloma XI): a multicentre, open-label, randomised, phase 3 trial 2019
Physicians, paraproteins and progress: Diagnosis and management of myeloma 2019
Transcriptome-wide association study of multiple myeloma identifies candidate susceptibility genes 2019
A high-risk, Double-Hit, group of newly diagnosed myeloma identified by genomic analysis 2018
Characterisation of immunoparesis in newly diagnosed myeloma and its impact on progression-free and overall survival in both old and recent myeloma trials 2018
Identification of multiple risk loci and regulatory mechanisms influencing susceptibility to multiple myeloma 2018
Identification of novel mutational drivers reveals oncogene dependencies in multiple myeloma 2018
Maintenance Treatment and Survival in Patients with Myeloma: A Systematic Review and Network Meta-Analysis 2018
Prevention and management of adverse events of novel agents in multiple myeloma: a consensus of the European Myeloma Network 2018
Quality of life during and following sequential treatment of previously untreated patients with multiple myeloma: findings of the Medical Research Council Myeloma IX randomised study 2018
Subclonal TP53 copy number is associated with prognosis in multiple myeloma 2018
Active multiple myeloma suppresses and typically eliminates coexisting MGUS 2017
Assessing the effect of obesity-related traits on multiple myeloma using a Mendelian randomisation approach 2017
Diagnosis and monitoring for light chain only and oligosecretory myeloma using serum free light chain tests 2017
Genome-wide association analysis of chronic lymphocytic leukaemia, Hodgkin lymphoma and multiple myeloma identifies pleiotropic risk loci 2017
Neutral tumor evolution in myeloma is associated with poor prognosis 2017
Response comparison of multiple myeloma and monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance to the same anti-myeloma therapy: a retrospective cohort study 2017
Telomere length is a critical determinant for survival in multiple myeloma 2017
The spectrum of somatic mutations in monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance indicates a less complex genomic landscape than that in multiple myeloma 2017
The varied distribution and impact of RAS codon and other key DNA alterations across the translocation cyclin D subgroups in multiple myeloma 2017
Deletion of CDKN2C drives the prognostic impact of deletion 1P in multiple myeloma 2016
DYNAMIC EVOLUTION OF COPY NUMBER ABERRATIONS ACCOMPANIES DISEASE RELAPSE IN MULTIPLE MYELOMA 2016
Evolving concepts in tumour lysis syndrome management - response to Ayed et al 2016
Genetic factors influencing the risk of multiple myeloma bone disease 2016
Genome-wide association study identifies multiple susceptibility loci for multiple myeloma 2016
Genome-wide association study identifies variation at 6q25.1 associated with survival in multiple myeloma 2016
Impact of genomic risk factors on survival after haematopoietic stem cell transplantation for patients with acute leukaemia 2016
Minimal residual disease following autologous stem cell transplant in myeloma: impact on outcome is independent of induction regimen 2016
Minimal residual disease predicts outcome in transplant ineligible myeloma patients: Results from the UK NCRI Myeloma XI trial 2016
Patients in the MRC Myeloma XI trial receiving induction chemotherapy for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma containing dexamethasone at full or moderated dose have significantly reduced half-life of IgG 2016
Second malignancies in the context of lenalidomide treatment: an analysis of 2732 myeloma patients enrolled to the Myeloma XI trial 2016
Testosterone treatment is not associated with increased risk of adverse cardiovascular events: results from the Registry of Hypogonadism in Men (RHYME) 2016
The NCRI Myeloma XI trial for newly diagnosed symptomatic multiple myeloma (NDMM); second primary malignancy (SPM) incidence when lenalidomide is used as an induction and maintenance treatment option 2016
The Spectrum and Clinical Impact of Epigenetic Modifier Mutations in Myeloma 2016
A molecular diagnostic approach able to detect the recurrent genetic prognostic factors typical of presenting myeloma 2015
APOBEC family mutational signatures are associated with poor prognosis translocations in multiple myeloma 2015
Coexistent hyperdiploidy does not abrogate poor prognosis in myeloma with adverse cytogenetics and may precede IGH translocations 2015
Guidelines for the management of tumour lysis syndrome in adults and children with haematological malignancies on behalf of the British Committee for Standards in Haematology 2015
Implementation of genome-wide complex trait analysis to quantify the heritability in multiple myeloma 2015
Minimal residual disease in myeloma by flow cytometry: independent prediction of survival benefit per log reduction 2015
Molecular Subgroups of Hyperdiploidy and Their Prognostic Relevance - an Analysis of 1,036 Myeloma Trial Patients 2015
Molecular Subtyping and Risk Stratification for the Classification of Myeloma 2015
Mutational Spectrum, Copy Number Changes, and Outcome: Results of a Sequencing Study of Patients With Newly Diagnosed Myeloma 2015
Myeloma XI Trial for Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma (NDMM); A Report of Second Primary Malignancy (SPM) Rates and the Importance of Review of Reported Cases 2015
Quadruplet Vs Sequential Triplet Induction Therapy Approaches to Maximise Response for Newly Diagnosed, Transplant Eligible, Myeloma Patients 2015
Spatiotemporal Analysis of Intraclonal Heterogeneity in Multiple Myeloma: Unravelling the Impact of Treatment and the Propagating Capacity of Subclones Using Whole Exome Sequencing 2015
Specific Identification of High Risk Disease Using Molecular Profiling By Mymap (Myeloma MLPA and translocation PCR) of 1,036 Cases 2015
The British Society for Haematology: 'What have the Romans ever done for us?' 2015
The Quadruplet Combination of Carfilzomib, Cyclophosphamide, Lenalidomide, and Dexamethasone is Safe and Well Tolerated as Induction Therapy for Newly Diagnosed, Transplant Eligible, Myeloma Patients 2015
Time to redefine Myeloma 2015
A retrospective multi-centre study of the effects of allogeneic haematopoietic SCT on pulmonary function 2014
Apobec Family Mutational Signatures Are Associated with Poor Prognosis Translocations in Multiple Myeloma 2014
Autologous stem cell transplantation in severe treatment-resistant Crohn's disease: long-term follow-up of UK patients treated on compassionate basis 2014
High Resolution Genome Wide DNA Methylation Analysis in a Large Trial Group Reveals a Novel Epigenetically Defined Subgroup of Myeloma Patients Characterized By Developmental Gene Hypermethylation 2014
High Throughput Genetic Profiling Using a Robust All-Molecular Diagnostic Approach Is Feasible to Specifically Identify a High Risk Group of Myeloma Patients 2014
Minimal Residual Disease: What Are the Minimum Requirements? Reply 2014
Mutational Patterns and Copy Number Changes at Diagnosis Are a Powerful Tool to Predict Outcome: Result of the Sequencing Study of 463 Newly Diagnosed Myeloma Trial Patients 2014
Optimising the use of plerixafor in stem cell mobilisation 2014
Optimizing induction and pretransplant consolidation for myeloma: Results of Myeloma XI, a phase III trial comparing different IMiDs 2014
Osteonecrosis of the jaw and renal safety in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma: Medical Research Council Myeloma IX Study results 2014
Psychosocial supportive care services for haematopoietic stem cell transplant patients; a service evaluation of three UK transplant centres 2014
Rapid, Robust and Accessible Molecular Profiling of Biologically and Clinically Relevant Copy Number Alterations in Multiple Myeloma from Small Amounts of Tumor DNA 2014
Serum free immunoglobulin light chain evaluation as a marker of impact from intraclonal heterogeneity on myeloma outcome 2014
The Extent of Intra-Clonal Genetic Diversity within the Myeloma Clone Is a Predictive Biomarker of Progression and Outcome after Treatment 2014
The Spectrum of Epigenetic Mutations in Myeloma and Their Clinical Impact 2014
The UK and Ireland Perspective: European Post-Approval Safety Study (Pass) in Relapsed/Refractory Multiple Myeloma Patients Treated with Lenalidomide, Bortezomib, and Thalidomide 2014
Biologically defined risk groups can be used to define the impact of thalidomide maintenance therapy in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma 2013
Common variation at 3q26.2, 6p21.33, 17p11.2 and 22q13.1 influences multiple myeloma risk 2013
et al. Epstein-Barr virus-independent diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in DNA ligase 4 deficiency 2013
Long-term Follow-up of MRC Myeloma IX Trial: Survival Outcomes with Bisphosphonate and Thalidomide Treatment 2013
Management of cytomegalovirus infection in haemopoietic stem cell transplantation 2013
Minimal Residual Disease Assessed by Multiparameter Flow Cytometry in Multiple Myeloma: Impact on Outcome in the Medical Research Council Myeloma IX Study 2013
Response and biological subtype of myeloma are independent prognostic factors and combine to define outcome after high-dose therapy 2013
The CCND1 c.870G > A polymorphism is a risk factor for t(11;14)(q13;q32) multiple myeloma 2013
et al. A functional variant in the core promoter of the CD95 cell death receptor gene predicts prognosis in acute promyelocytic leukemia 2012
A novel prognostic model in myeloma based on co-segregating adverse FISH lesions and the ISS: analysis of patients treated in the MRC Myeloma IX trial 2012
Allogeneic Stem Cell Transplantation for Myelofibrosis in 2012 2012
Common variation at 3p22.1 and 7p15.3 influences multiple myeloma risk 2012
Cyclophosphamide, thalidomide, and dexamethasone as induction therapy for newly diagnosed multiple myeloma patients destined for autologous stem-cell transplantation: MRC Myeloma IX randomized trial results 2012
Diagnosis and management of chronic graft-versus-host disease 2012
Effects of induction and maintenance plus long-term bisphosphonates on bone disease in patients with multiple myeloma: the Medical Research Council Myeloma IX Trial 2012
Haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in severe autoimmune diseases: analysis of UK outcomes from the British Society of Blood and Marrow Transplantation (BSBMT) data registry 1997-2009 2012
Mobilized Peripheral Blood Stem Cells Compared with Bone Marrow as the Stem Cell Source for Unrelated Donor Allogeneic Transplantation with Reduced-Intensity Conditioning in Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia in Complete Remission: An Analysis from the Acute Leukemia Working Party of the European Group for Blood and Marrow Transplantation 2012
Organ-specific management and supportive care in chronic graft-versus-host disease 2012
Sequential Immunomodulatory Drug (IMiD) and Proteosome Inhibitor Therapy Improves Response Rates in Newly Diagnosed Multiple Myeloma: Preliminary Results From the Myeloma XI Trial 2012
The Impact of Thalidomide Maintenance Therapy Varies Dependent Upon Biological Risk Grouping 2012
A Gene Expression-Based Predictor for Myeloma Patients at High Risk of Developing Bone Disease on Bisphosphonate Treatment 2011
Cyclophosphamide, thalidomide, and dexamethasone (CTD) as initial therapy for patients with multiple myeloma unsuitable for autologous transplantation 2011
Effects of zoledronic acid versus clodronic acid on skeletal morbidity in patients with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MRC Myeloma IX): secondary outcomes from a randomised controlled trial 2011
Epstein-Barr virus-driven lymphoproliferative disorder post-CAMPATH-1H (alemtuzumab) in refractory polymyositis 2011
Heterogeneity in the Prognostic Significance of 12p Deletion and Chromosome 5 Amplification in Multiple Myeloma 2011
Mapping of Chromosome 1p Deletions in Myeloma Identifies FAM46C at 1p12 and CDKN2C at 1p32.3 as Being Genes in Regions Associated with Adverse Survival 2011
MRC Myeloma IX, 6 Year Median Follow-up (FU) Highlights the Importance of Long-Term FU in Myeloma Clinical Trials and Differential Effects of Thalidomide in High- and Low-Risk Disease 2011
Results of the Medical Research Council (MRC) Myeloma IX study: Effects of zoledronic acid (ZOL) on overall survival (OS) in patients with multiple myeloma (MM) 2011
The Interaction of Response and FISH-Based Risk Stratification to Better Define Clinical Outcome in Myeloma 2011
The Involvement of Epithelial Fas in a Human Model of Graft Versus Host Disease 2011
The role of in vivo T-cell depletion on reduced-intensity conditioning allogeneic stem cell transplantation from HLA-identical siblings in patients with follicular lymphoma 2011
A biomarker panel associated with acute and chronic graft-versus-host disease 2010
A Functional Polymorphism In the CD95 Cell Death Receptor Associated with Prognosis In Acute Promyelocytic Leukemia 2010
EBV driven lymphoproliferative disease following alemtuzumab (CAMPATH-1H) in refractory polymyositis 2010
First-line treatment with zoledronic acid as compared with clodronic acid in multiple myeloma (MRC Myeloma IX): a randomised controlled trial 2010
Optimising Bone Disease In Myeloma, Zoledronic Acid Plus Thalidomide Combinations Improves Survival and Bone Endpoints Results of the MRC Myeloma IX Trial 2010
Thalidomide maintenance significantly improves progression free (PFS) but not overall survival (OS) of myeloma patients, with PFS benerts in favourable fish subgroups only: MRC myeloma IX results 2010
Thalidomide Maintenance Significantly Improves Progression Free Survival (PFS) and Overall Survival (OS) of Myeloma Patients When Effective Relapse Treatments Are Used MRC Myeloma IX Results 2010
Zoledronic acid (ZOL) prolongs time to first skeletal-related event (SRE) and survival versus clodronate in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM): MRC myeloma IX trail results 2010
Zoledronic acid (ZOL) significantly increases progression-free survival (FPS) versus clodronate and may improve response rates in newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (MM): MRC myeloma IX trail results 2010
Zoledronic acid (ZOL) significantly reduces skeletal-related events (SRES) versus clodronate (CLO) in patients (PTS) with multiple myeloma (MM): Results of the medical research council (MRC) Myeloma IX Study 2010
Donor HSP70-hom gene polymorphism contributes to the development of chronic GvHD after allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 2009
G to C transition at position-173 of MIF gene of the recipient is associated with reduced relapse rates after allogeneic stem cell transplantation 2009
Mobilized Peripheral Blood Stem Cells (PBSC) Compared with Bone Marrow (BM) as the Stem Cell Source for Unrelated Donor Allogeneic Transplantation with Reduced Intensity Conditioning (RIC-alloSCT) in Patients with Acute Myeloid Leukemia (AML) in Complete Remission (CR): a Retrospective Analysis From the ALWP of EBMT 2009
The Addition of Thalidomide to the Induction Treatment of Newly Presenting Myeloma Patients Increases the CR Rate Which Is Likely to Translate Into Improved PFS and OS 2009
The Role of In Vivo T-Cell Depletion On Reduced Intensity Conditioning Allogeneic Hematopoietic Cell Transplantation From HLA-Identical Siblings in Patients with Follicular Lymphoma: An European Blood and Marrow Transplantation Study 2009
et al. Unrelated donor and HLA-identical sibling haematopoietic stem cell transplantation cure chronic granulomatous disease with good long-term outcome and growth 2009
IL13 +2044 (Arg130Gln) Associates with Acute and Chronic Graft-Versus-Host Disease Following Haematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation 2008
et al. DNA-Dependent Protein Kinase Is a Therapeutic Target in Poor Prognosis B-Cell Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia 2008
G to C transition at position -173 of MIF gene of the recipient is associated with improved outcome after allogeneic stem cell transplantation 2008
Genetic associations with thalidomide mediated venous thrombotic events in myeloma identified using targeted genotyping 2008
Maintenance Thalidomide May Improve Progression Free but Not Overall Survival; Results from the Myeloma IX Maintenance Randomisation 2008
Polymorphic MLH1 and risk of cancer after methylating chemotherapy for Hodgkin lymphoma 2008
Position statement on the use of bortezomib in multiple myeloma 2008
Dr Elizabeth Leitch
et al. Role of interleukin-13 in predicting graft-versus-host disease; functional and genotyping studies 2008
The role of genetic variants of NOD2/CARD15, a receptor of the innate immune system, in GvHD and complications following related and unrelated donor haematopoietic stem cell transplantation 2008
Defining complete response in multiple myeloma: Role of the serum free light chain assay and multiparameter flow cytometry 2007
High loading dose AmBisome® is efficacious and well tolerated in the management of invasive fungal infection in hematology patients 2007
Response by SFLC and marrow flow cytometry in MRC myeloma IX 2007
Thalidomide maintenance following high-dose therapy in multiple myeloma: a UK myeloma forum phase 2 study 2007
Dr Clifford Lawrence
Chronic cutaneous graft-versus-host disease associated with multiple cutaneous squamous cell carcinomas 2006
Dr Archibold Hunter
De-escalation of the alemtuzumab dose prior to nonmyeloablative HLA-identical sibling transplantation: Crucial role of timing 2006
NOD2/CARD15 mutations associate with transplant-related mortality and GvHD) in HLA-identical sibling transplants: Detailed analysis of single SNPs in 209 recipient/donor pairs 2006
Phase III trial of oral ibandronate versus intravenous zoledronic acid in multiple myeloma: Study design 2006
Prognostic significance of NOD2/CARD15 polymorphisms in allogeneic HSCT from unrelated donors 2006
Targeting DNA-PK and ATM increases sensitivity to chlorambucil and fludarabine in chemoresistant and p53-defective B-CLL cells 2006
An in vitro test of steroid responsiveness using a modified human skin explant model for graft-versus-host disease 2005
An open-label study of high-dose liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome (R)) in the treatment of proven and probable invasive fungal infections 2005
Bortezomib, a novel proteasome inhibitor, in the treatment of hematologic malignancies 2005
et al. Human langerhans cells in transplantation: Recipient cells survive conditioning but donor cells predominate at day 100 2005
Less than half of patients aged 65 years or under with myeloma proceed to transplantation: results of a two region population-based survey 2005
Renal safety of ibandronate 2005
Response to Goodman et al.: Amyloidosis, not myeloma 2005
Safety and compliance of intravenous and oral dosing regimens 2005
Safety issues influence choice 2005
The fate of human Langerhans cells in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation 2005
The issue of renal safety of zoledronic acid from a nephrologist's point of view 2005
et al. Dynamic EBV gene loads in renal, hepatic, and cardiothoracic transplant recipients as determined by real-time PCR light cycler 2004
Newly diagnosed myeloma pateints are at risk of venous thrombotic events - High risk patients need to be identified and recieve thromboprophylaxis: The MRC experience 2004
NOD2/CARD15 mutations associate with transplant related mortality and GvHD in HLA-identical sibling transplants: Detailed analysis of single SNPs in 211 recipient/donor pairs 2004
Only a minority of age eligible patients with myeloma undergo treatment with autologous transplantation. A population based study of the contributory factors. A combined survey on behalf of The Northern Ireland Regional Haematology Group (NIRHG) and The Newcastle Regional Haematology Group (NRHG) 2004
Only a minority of myeloma patients aged under 65 years receive high-dose therapy with autologous transplantation 2004
Results of an open-label study of high-dose liposomal amphotericin B (AmBisome) in the treatment of confirmed fungal infections in high-risk patients 2004
Use of fludarabine in the treatment of acute myeloid leukemia 2004
et al. Changes in EBV gene load in renal transplant recipients 2003
Dr Theresa Wardell
et al. Changes in the human mitochondrial genome after treatment of malignant disease 2003
et al. Clinical and genotypic risk factors for GvHD are modulated by prophylaxis: A multicentre cohort study of HLA matched sib-allo BMT 2003
Human herpesvirus 6 encephalitis following flag chemotherapy 2003
et al. Polymorphisms of interleukin-1α constitute independent risk factors for chronic graft-versus-host disease after allogeneic bone marrow transplantation 2003
Interleukin-10 modulation of alloreactivity and graft-versus-host reactions 2002
The detection of apoptosis in a human in vitro skin explant assay for graft versus host reactions 2002
et al. Use of real-time PCR to measure Epstein-Barr virus genomes in whole blood 2002
A multicentre, open, non-comparative phase II study of a combination of fludarabine phosphate, cytarabine and granulocyte colony-stimulating factor in relapsed and refractory acute myeloid leukaemia and de novo refractory anaemia with excess of blasts in transformation 2001
Accelerated telomere shortening following allogeneic transplantation is independent of the cell source and occurs within the first year post transplant 2001
Donor interleukin 1 receptor antagonist genotype associated with acute graft-versus-host disease in human leucocyte antigen-matched sibling allogeneic transplants 2001
Histological correlation between different centers using the skin explant model to predict graft-versus-host disease following bone marrow transplantation 2001
Minor histocompatibility antigen specific CTLs and in situ skin graft versus host reactions 2001
Outcome of PTLD in renal and liver allograft recipients 2001
Endothelial dysfunction, disordered coagulation and fibrinolysis in patients with type 2 diabetes and microalbuminuria 1999
Kerry-Ann Oliver
Increased sensitivity of the cord blood alloresponse to cyclosporin 1999
et al. Interleukin-6 gene polymorphism associated with absence of severe graft-versus-host-disease in allogeneic BMT: A possible genetic protection factor. 1999
In order to support research and develop new technologies, the Microscopy and Cytometry core facility of Amsterdam UMC has partnered with Nikon to establish a cutting-edge microscopy facility and to combine their knowledge and core expertise for serving the scientific community in the field of health and life sciences.
Amsterdam UMC employs more than 15,000 professionals, treating over 350,000 patients a year at both its sites – AMC and VUmc. Working towards a future in which illnesses are prevented and the best treatment made available to all patients, Amsterdam UMC has developed new methods for diagnostics and treatment together with professionals from other renowned national and international institutions. The institute’s main focus is on complex patient care and highly-specialized treatment of rare medical conditions. Amsterdam UMC teaches and trains thousands of young people to become doctors, specialists or nurses. Its researchers are clustered in eight research centers so that the institute can achieve its ambition of executing international, cutting-edge research. At Amsterdam UMC, AMC and VUmc are working together on academic patient care, scientific research and teaching and training.
Contato
Scientific Director Microscopy and Cytometry Core Facility
email hidden; JavaScript is required
Technical Director Microscopy
email hidden; JavaScript is required
Address
O2 Building,
De Boelelaan 1108,
1081 HZ Amsterdam
Website
Amsterdam UMC
Systems Available
Live cell confocal A1R HD with spectral detector
Capturing images of large samples such as tissues, organs and live model organisms requires both extending the detectable area of cellular responses and increasing image capture speed. The A1 HD25/A1R HD25 confocal microscope has the largest field of view (25 mm) in its field, enabling users to expand the limits of scientific research.
Live cell widefield microscope with multicolor and FRET options
Live cell widefield microscope with multicolor and FRET options (triggered Ti2, with incubation and highspeed filter wheel)
N-SIM-S super-resolution with A1R HD25 confocal
A1 R HD25 and N-SIM system together for high flexibility, high content, high speed and super resolution to unravel biological details
High content screening platform LIPSI with Yokogawa CSU-W1 spinning disk confocal
Nikon Europe has developed, in collaboration with key players in the field Prior scientific and Life Imaging Services, a fully incubated, high content screening platform that enables high speed acquisition for up to 20 well plates. Together with our analysis tools, Nikon enables you to get results from live cells in real time.
Key Challenges | Open Science - Part 3
While more than half of open access papers are published under the terms of a liberal Creative Commons Attribution Licence, the majority of authors of open access works seem not to accept the terms of either this or any other Creative Commons license. Despite the fact that the majority of journals indexed in the Directory of Open Access Journals use liberal Creative Commons Attribution (CC-BY) licence as a default, and that probably more than half of all articles published in open access serials are published under the terms of this licence, academic authors seem not to support liberal licensing. How […]
Predatory journal – that sounds terrifying, doesn't it? However, the problem of low quality open access journals is overemphasized. 67.4% of academic authors who answered Key Challenges of Research Communication De Gruyter Open Author's Survey, know a high quality open access journal dealing with their research topic. The knowledge of high quality OA venues is the most common in the field Medical and Life Sciences. Authors who published more papers in the last 3 years than their average disciplinary colleagues are more likely to know a top-tier OA venue. The question of open access journals quality is one of the […]
Open Access in Sciences APCs Open Science article processing charges Open Access academia in data Gold Open Access De Gruyter Open journal news Impact Factor popularization peer review Open Access to Books OA Hybrid Open Access De Gruyter Funding Green Open Access Key Challenges authors survey journals opinion guides Elsevier
Up to 1 in 20 babies born to mothers with Zika have birth defects, report says | Health Life
The Zika virus is still spreading locally in some areas, including Puerto Rico. As many as one in 20 babies born to mothers infected by Zika have birth defects, a new report from by US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shows. The risk jumped to nearly one in 13 when mothers were found to have Zika in the first trimester, the CDC stated.
Wellness Incentive Programs | Pamphlets and Flyers | Refer to the 2022 NALC Health Benefit Plan brochure (RI 71-009) for complete details.
Wellness and Other Special feature
24-hour help line for mental health and substance abuse
You may call 877-468-1016, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to access in-person support for a wide range of concerns, including depression, eating disorders, coping with grief and loss, alcohol or drug dependency, physical abuse and managing stress.
24-hour nurse line
Call CareAllies 24-Hour Nurse Line at 877-220-NALC (6252) to access a registered nurse 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. This nurse line seeks to influence consumer behavior by providing tools, education, counseling and support to help members make decisions with respect to their health and use of healthcare services.
Childhood Weight Management Resource Center
Visit our Web site for information and tips on weight management and overcoming childhood obesity. You can access numerous articles on food, nutrition, exercise and fitness specifically geared for children of all ages. You can also find recipes, meal suggestions, and a BMI chart designed for children from age 2 through 20.
Through this on-line tool, parents can sign up for a free OptumHealth Live and Work Well monthly email newsletter that can be tailored to their child’s age and special interests.
Complex and Chronic Disease Management Program
Accordant Health Management offers programs for the following complex chronic medical conditions:
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS-Lou Gehrig's Disease)
Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP)
Crohn's Disease • Cystic Fibrosis (CF)
Dermatomyositis
Gaucher Disease
Hemophilia
Hereditary Angioedema
Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)
Multiple Sclerosis (MS)
Myasthenia Gravis (MG)
Parkinson's Disease (PD)
Polymyositis
Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA)
Scleroderma
Seizure disorders (Epilepsy)
Sickle Cell Disease (SCD)
Systemic Lupus Erythematosus (SLE)
Ulcerative Colitis
For more information on the Accordant Health Management programs, please call toll-free 844-923-0805.
Disease management programs
- Your Health First
Through a clinical identification process, individuals are identified who have a chronic medical conditions uch as asthma, COPD, depression, diabetes, heart disease, and musculosketletal disorders. Health advocates trained as nurses, coaches, nutritionists and clinicians use a one-on-one approach to help individuals:
Recognize worsening symptoms and know when to see a doctor
Establish questions to discuss with their doctor
Understand the importance of following doctors' orders
Develop health habits related to nutrition, sleep, exercise, weight, tobacco, and stress
Prepare for a hospital admission or recover after a hospital stay
Make educated decisions about treatment options
Enhanced Caremark Direct Retail Program
You can purchase non-covered drugs through your local CVS network pharmacy and receive the convenience, safety, and confidentiality you already benefit from with covered prescriptions. Our Enhanced CaremarkDirect Retail is offered at no additional charge to you. Using this program at your local CVS Pharmacy, as well as all major chains, for both covered and non-covered prescriptions will help ensure overall patient safety. The program allows you to get a discount on many prescription drugs not covered by our prescription benefits.
Enhanced CaremarkDirect Retail is a value-added program that provides you with safe, convenient access to competitively priced, non-covered prescriptions, and certain over-the-counter drugs.
You may call 800-933-NALC (6252), 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, for a complete listing of available medications and their cost.
Health Assessment
A free Health Assessment is available under Quicklinks at www.nalchbp.org. The Health Assessment is an online program that analyzes your health related responses and gives you a personalized plan to achieve specific health goals. Your Health Assessment profile provides information to put you on a path to good physical and mental health.
Any eligible member or dependent over the age of 18 can earn $30 in health savings rewards by completing the Health Assessment. See Wellness Incentive Programs in this section for more details. Or, you may be eligible to choose from the following:
When one covered member completes the Health Assessment, you may choose one of the following:
Self only CignaPlus Savings® discount dental program. We will pay the CignaPlus Savings® discount dental premium for the remainder of the calendar year in which you completed the Health Assessment provided you remain enrolled in our Plan;
Waiver of two $20 PPO medical office visit copayments (when the Plan is the primary payor) incurred in the same year as the Health Assessment is completed. Copayment waivers will be applied to claims for services rendered after completion of the Health Assessment; or
A wearable activity tracking device.
When two or more covered family members (including the member) complete the Health Assessment, you may choose one of the following:
Family CignaPlus Savings® discount dental program. We will pay the CignaPlus Savings® discount dental premium for the remainder of the calendar year in which you completed the Health Assessment provided you remain enrolled in our Plan;
Waiver of four $20 PPO medical office visit copayments (when the Plan is the primary payor) incurred in the same year as the Health Assessment is completed. Copayment waivers will be applied to claims for services rendered after completion of the Health Assessment; or
A wearable activity tracking device (limit 2 devices per enrollment).
Note: You must be 18 years or older to be eligible to complete the Health Assessment. Individuals age 13 and older can access other services offered by CareAllies/Cigna.
CignaPlus Savings® is a discount dental program that provides members access to discounted fees with participating dental providers. For more information on this program, call 877-521-0244 or visit www. cignaplussavings.com.
Healthy Rewards Program
A program available to all members that provides discounts on services that are not usually covered by the Plan. You will receive discounts on weight management and nutrition services, fitness clubs, vision and hearing care, and healthy lifestyle products. This program promotes wellness, good health, and healthy behaviors. For more information call 800-870-3470 or visit our website.
Musculoskeletal (MSK) Program
Our Musculoskeletal Program through Hinge Health offers a convenient way to help you overcome back and joint pain, avoid surgeries, and reduce medication usage - all from the comfort of your home. This program is offered at no cost to you and your dependents. Depending on the treatment needed, this program offers access to physicians, physical therapists and health coaches, and motion sensor technology to guide you to the right care at the right time.
For more information or to enroll call 855-902-2777 or visit hingehealth.com/nalc.
Personal Health Record
Our Personal Health Record allows you to create and maintain a complete, comprehensive, and confidential medical record containing information on allergies, immunizations, medical providers, medications, past medical procedures, and more. Participation is voluntary and access is secured. Access this tool from our home page.
Solutions for Caregivers
For members or spouses that are caring for an elderly relative or disabled dependent, this program provides expert assistance from a Care Advocate, a registered nurse with geriatric, disability and community health experience. Your benefit gives you a bank of six free hours per calendar year, which may be used for any combination of the following services:
Evaluating the elder’s/dependent’s living situation
Identifying medical, social and home needs (present and future)
Recommending a personalized service plan for support, safety and care
Finding and arranging all necessary services
Monitoring care and adjusting the service plan when necessary
You have the option to purchase continuing services beyond the six hours offered. You must call 877-468-1016, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week, to access the services of Solutions for Caregivers. Hours of operation are 8:00 a.m. to 8:30 p.m. (Pacific time), with a Care Advocate on call after hours and on weekends.
You may also access educational resources and discounted products and services anytime online at www.UHCforCaregivers.com/welcome/nalchbp. Please use code NALCHBP when creating an account.
Substance Use Disorder (SUD)
This program offers assistance in finding In-Network providers and treatment options in the area and provides education about the SUD condition. Call OptumTM at 855-780-5955 to speak with a licensed clinician who can help guide you to an In-Network treatment provider or treatment center. Better treatment outcomes occur when you have a lear individualized treatment plan within your community.
Telehealth services
Virtual doctor visits are available through NALCHBP Telehealth. Download the mobile app for Android or iOS mobile devices by visiting Google Play™ or the Apple App Store, visit www.nalchbptelehealth. org or call 888-541-7706 to access high quality, affordable care, when you need it, where you need it. Care is provided by U.S. board licensed and credentialed physicians and nurse practitioners who can write a prescription for medication, if appropriate. Virtual visits can be used for adults or children with minor acute, non-emergency medical conditions such as flu, sinus problems, allergies, abrasions or minor wounds. See Section 10 for definition and more examples.
Note: This benefit is only available through NALCHBP Telehealth.
Weight Management Program
The Real Appeal® Program through Optum™ is an online weight loss program that offers group and one-on-one personalized coaching through an online and mobile platform. The program focuses on weight loss through proper nutrition, exercise, sleep and stress management. Members will have access to a Transformation Coach and a suite of online tools to help track food and activity. Members will also receive a Success Kit to support their weight loss journey including a food and weight scale, resistance band, workout DVDs and more!
Coaching sessions are scheduled online at the members’ convenience and educational content is provided throughout the year. Coaches will be able to see the participants’ progress throughout the course of the program and be able to offer personalized support. Real Appeal® encourages members to make small changes toward larger long-term health results with sustained support throughout the duration of the program.
Members can click here to enroll in the Real Appeal® Program.
Wellness Incentive Programs
You can earn valuable health savings rewards to use towards eligible medical expenses. We will send each eligible member, 18 years of age and older, a debit card to access his or her account. Please keep your card for future use even if you use all your health account dollars; you may be eligible for wellness incentives in subsequent benefit years. We do not send new cards to continuing participants until the card expires. If you leave the NALC Health Benefit Plan, any money remaining in your account will be forfeited. Below is a list of programs, screenings, and preventive services that are eligible for a health savings reward. See criteria to receive the reward in the section indicated.
See our official brochure or visit our Wellness Incenitive Programs page for more details.
Non-FEHB benefits
CignaPlus Savings® (discount dental program)
CignaPlus Savings® (discount dental program) – Non-FEHB benefit
CignaPlus Savings® is a discount dental program that provides members access to discounted fees with participating dental providers. This program is available only to members, and their dependents, of the NALC Health Benefit Plan. The monthly Self Only premium is $3.00 and $5.00 for Self and Family. This is a discount program and not insurance, and the member must pay the entire discounted charge for dental services. For additional information or to join call 877-521-0244 or visit our Web site.
CJR's Assignment Desk, Part I - Columbia Journalism Review
CJR's Assignment Desk, Part I
Hospitals sell emergency room care
This summer, Phil Galewitz of Kaiser Health News wrote an intriguing piece published in The Washington Post about hospitals that market their emergency room services to potential customers. The story narrative seemed out-of-whack with the conventional wisdom about hospital ERs. How many times during the run-up to health reform and during the Great Debate itself did politicos and advocates tell us that reform was necessary to keep people out of the ER, where the cost of care is sky high? Reform, we were told, was going to channel people to cheaper places for medical services. It seemed so logical. Last year, though, there were signs that logic had not won. ER use had not declined in Massachusetts, on whose reform law federal efforts are modeled. Galewitz's story was so offbeat and yet so timely that it inspired us to create a new series, "CJR's Assignment Desk," where we will feature reporting that can be replicated across the country by local reporters who are trying to tackle health care—sometimes a daunting task in this era of limited journalistic resources. The emergency room disconnect seemed like an ideal candidate for our series debut. This story can be done by good, old-fashioned observation and connecting the dots with what you see. Observation is an important reporting tool that of late has taken a back seat to data mining as the reporter's technique of choice. Almost every community has a hospital, and most hospitals have emergency rooms. What's happening with them makes an interesting read, and highlights one reason why health care costs are so difficult, if not impossible, to control. Galewitz reported that hospitals are using "aggressive marketing of ERs to increase admissions and profits." What a surprise! That's the name of the game in the new world of hospital conglomerates: reel in the patients wherever you can find them. Medicaid recipients have been a juicy target, although states have been trying to trim ER visits as a way to cut their Medicaid costs. Anthony Keck, South Carolina's Medicaid director, told Galewitz: "Many hospitals are actively recruiting people to come to the ER for non-emergency reasons. When you are advertising on billboards that your ER wait time is three minutes, you are not advertising to stroke and heart attack victims." Are hospitals trying to lure Medicaid patients and others to the ERs to treat them for minor illnesses? It would seem so. HCA, the country's largest for-profit hospital chain, launched a major ER marketing campaign in Virginia, Texas, Florida, and other states using billboards and smartphones to tell potential customers—or, rather, patients—the average ER waiting times. So if your child has an earache, you can pick which hospital will see the kid quickest rather than visiting the family doc in the morning. That's tempting indeed, and while it might be the latest thing in consumer information, it might not be the best thing for the health system.
Some hospitals belonging to Tenet Healthcare, another large chain, had seen such a surge in patients using the ER for primary care that they began accepting online appointments to make it easier to use their emergency departments. Is that spike in ER patients a function of the lack of primary care, which health reform was supposed to cure, or is it because of the hospital's marketing skill? In Baltimore, Saint Agnes Hospital advertises on its website that the urgent-care portion of its ER offers quick treatment of minor ailments such as colds and sore throats. When Galewitz asked about this, a hospital VP explained it was a way to offer more efficient service, though, he added, they do not push their ER as much as competitors, in order to avoid patient traffic jams.
Other hospitals hardly miss a chance to market. Passing through Denver's airport the other day I saw an ad for one hospital's ER waiting times. Hmm, prowling for patients even in transit? A bit more research gave a fuller picture of the Denver scene, where promoting waiting times is a way to snag new patients. Would you choose a hospital with a sixteen-minute wait, a ten-minute wait, a seven-minute wait, or none at all? The website of the Swedish Medical Center noted those options for four hospitals that the parents of a sick child might consider. Porter Adventist Hospital says it "posts the most accurate ER wait times in Denver—updated every 15 minutes." "HealthONE is the first hospital system in Colorado to make both adult and pediatric ER wait time available," says a promotional blog post for iTriage, a smartphone app that answers health questions. And so the competition goes.
There are so many angles to this story. Where are the insurance companies? Do they condone these practices? Recall, they were the ones slapping high coinsurance and copayments for ER use in an effort to redirect care to cheaper settings? Are consumers willing to pay the price in exchange for a quick diagnosis? The Kaiser/Post story focused on one insurer, Medicaid. What about the rest? What are the relative costs of using the ER to treat bronchitis versus going to the doctor's office or to an urgent care clinic. One hospital administrator whose facility is not far from Denver told me the cost of an uncomplicated ER visit would be two to three times more for the same service in a doctor's office or an urgent care clinic. Where are the primary care doctors? Are they turning away commercially insured as well as Medicaid patients? Will more of them magically appear because under health reform the government will pay them a little extra money? And then there's the biggest question of all: Do we as a country really want to control medical costs—and, if so, who should be responsible for doing it?
Last year, the Akron Beacon Journal previewed this new hospital marketing tool. Yep. Akron is a hotbed for promotions of ER waiting times. A spokesman for Akron General told the paper its door-to-doc campaign was geared at patients "who don't have to call 911 to come in." That about says it all, doesn't it?
Tags: Campaign Desk, emergency room, health reform, hospitals, marketing, story ideas Trending stories
Thaís VCA Pimentel - Semantic Scholar
Sign inThaís VCA PimentelShareSuggest Changes36Citation Velocity163CitationsCitations Per YearFelipe Fregni2Daniel Pimentel2Caterina Breitenstein1J Chae1Cristina Bornhofen14Felipe Fregni2Magdalena Sarah Volz2Wolnei Caumo2Bruno R. Da Costa2Marom BiksonFilter Results:Publication Year20112013Publication TypeCo-authorPublication VenueBrain RegionOrganismSort by:Highly Influential CitationsCitationsAccelerationVelocityRecencyLearn MoreAssessment and treatment of pain with non-invasive cortical stimulation.Soroush Zaghi, Bruna Thiele, Daniel Pimentel, Thais Pimentel, Felipe FregniRestorative neurology and neuroscience2011PURPOSE
There remains an unmet clinical need for the development of new therapeutic approaches for the treatment of pain. Recent findings have confirmed significant changes in the pain-related neural networks among patients with chronic pain, opening novel possibilities for investigation. Two non-invasive techniques (transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)… (More)View on PubMedRelated PublicationsMore...Sample size calculation in physical medicine and rehabilitation: a systematic review of reporting, characteristics, and results in randomized controlled trials.Lydia Abdul Latif, João Eduardo Daud Amadera, Daniel Pimentel, Thais Pimentel, Felipe FregniArchives of physical medicine and rehabilitation2011OBJECTIVE
To assess systematically the reporting of sample size calculation in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in 5 leading journals in the field of physical medicine and rehabilitation (PM&R).
The data source was full reports of RCTs in 5 leading PM&R journals (Journal of Rehabilitation Medicine, Archives of Physical Medicine and… (More)View PDFRelated PublicationsMore...Gene expression profile of long non-coding RNA EVF-2 in medulloblastoma cell lines and tissue samplesRicardo Bonfim-Silva, Thaís VCA Pimentel, +5 authors Aparecida M Fontes2013View PDFRelated PublicationsMore...‹1›The Allen Institute for Artificial IntelligenceProudly built by AI2 with the help of our Collaborators using these Sources.Terms of Service•Privacy Policy.
Mind-Body Healing Archives - Page 3 of 3 - Coach Sofia Fitness
August 9, 2019 September 8, 2017 by Coach Sofia
I like to sit quietly at the end of each year to reflect on my wins, challenges, and what I can learn from them. This year has definitely brought many changes into my life, and as I was thinking about this, I decided why not share with you some of the lessons that I have …
Read moreLessons chronic pain can teach you
Categories Blog, Mind-Body Healing Leave a comment
How To Heal From Tension Myositis Syndrome
August 31, 2019 May 26, 2017 by Coach Sofia
The first time I learned about tension myositis syndrome (TMS) and the mind-body syndrome was through one of Dr. Sarno's books. So far I've read all of his books and I can confidently say that Dr. Sarno had a huge impact on my healing journey. What Is Tension Myositis Syndrome Tension myositis syndrome (TMS) refers …
Read moreHow To Heal From Tension Myositis Syndrome
Categories Back Pain, Blog, Mind-Body Healing 8 Comments
August 9, 2019 March 23, 2017 by Coach Sofia
It has been a while that I wanted to write a post about the mental implications of carrying chronic back pain or any other chronic illness in general. It can be very hard to feel understood when the world around you does not give you a break, and so I felt the need to share …
Read moreIs chronic back pain affecting your mental wellbeing?
Categories Blog, Mind-Body Healing 7 Comments
How The GAPs diet helped me heal from chronic pain (and a leaky gut)
May 12, 2019 March 11, 2017 by Coach Sofia
I am very excited to share my journey on the GAPs diet (Gut and Psychology Syndrome Diet) in this post. I want to document my story (ups and downs included), so that someone, somewhere may benefit from it. The past 2-3 years of my life has been a complete struggle to heal my low back …
Read moreHow The GAPs diet helped me heal from chronic pain (and a leaky gut)
Categories Blog, Mind-Body Healing 9 Comments
Chronic pain and anxiety – How to cope?
August 3, 2019 October 28, 2016 by Coach Sofia
Hi Everyone, I am so excited about today's blog post. I had the opportunity to get my colleague Heidi from nutritionintuition to write specifically for my community about anxiety. During my experience dealing with low back pain, I experienced severe periods of anxiety. Lack of sleep and constantly being in pain took its toll on …
Please tell us if we may use 3rd party marketing optimization cookies to remind you about our panel offer in the future in case you don’t register today. We use website cookies and similar technologies on our websites to ensure that we give you the best experience on our websites (including those optimized for mobile devices). These cookies and similar technologies are to help manage login sessions, tell us which parts of our websites people have visited, and improve the speed/security of our sites.
Find out more
YES, ALL COOKIES
YES, ONLY WEBSITE COOKIES
Toggle navigation
Top Main Menu
OUR MEMBERS
FIND OUT MORE
LifePoints App
Who We Are
How It Works
SIGN IN
JOIN NOW
LifePoints Panel Privacy Policy
LifePoints Panel Privacy Policy
Lightspeed Privacy Policy
Last updated: September 23rd, 2020
1. Introduction
This Privacy Policy sets out the commitment of Lightspeed LLC, 685 US-206, Suite 204, Bridgewater, New Jersey NJ 08807, USA and its affiliates including Lightspeed Research Limited, 4 Millbank, Westminster, London, SW1P 3JA, UK (altogether "Lightspeed"), a Kantar group company ("Kantar"), to the privacy of its panel members (“Panellists”, “Panellist”), and governs Panellists’ rights regarding privacy and data protection.
This Privacy Policy applies to the Lightspeed panels known as LifePoints and All Global Circle, altogether identified in this Privacy Policy as the Lightspeed panels (the “Panels”). For clarity, this policy is publicly available on the LifePoints panel site as “LifePoints Panel Privacy Policy” and on the All Global Circle as “All Global Circle Privacy Policy”. Panellists are members of the Panels, operated by Lightspeed and for which Lightspeed is the data controller. Taking part in our panels, surveys and research activities is entirely voluntary. By registering to the Panels and accepting these terms, you confirm that you have read and understood the terms of this Privacy Policy. We ask you to read this Privacy Policy carefully.
For the purpose of this Privacy Policy, personal data means any information which relates to an identifiable living individual (or the equivalent applicable term in your jurisdiction - for example in California, personal information would also relate to a specific household).
2. Lawful Collection and Use of Data
We collect your personal data in several ways such as through our website(s) (for example your panel portal), our mobile applications and other activities such as social media, apps and online, face to face or telephone studies or other research activities. We may add other ways and activities moving forward but we will always operate in compliance with this policy.
We have set out below, more detailed information about how we use your personal data. We are also required by law to explain the legal basis for processing your personal data. These legal bases are listed below and could be different for each use case:
we have your consent for the use of your personal data;
we need to use your personal data in order to perform a contract with you;
we need to process your data to comply with a legal obligation;
we need to process your data in order to protect your vital interests or someone else;
the processing is necessary to perform a task in the public interest; or
the use of your personal data is necessary for our (or our clients’) legitimate interests (in which case we will explain what those interests are).
We will never misrepresent ourselves or what we are doing. If you receive an email that concerns you, purporting to be from us, please let us know as shown below in “How to Contact Us”.
Operating our website(s)
Purpose
Ensure that content from our site is presented effectively, according to the device you are accessing it on.
Analyse statistical data about user(s) browsing actions and their patterns
Data collected/processed
IP address, operating system information, browser type
Source
We obtain this data from you directly
Panel registration and management
Purpose
To administer your panel profile and to communicate with you, including informing you about the panel, selecting you for future surveys, contacting you to participate in our survey and other research activities, issuing your incentive, helping when you contact our panel support, etc.
Data collected/processed
Name, email address, postal address, mobile device ID, medical education number (US), GMC Number (UK), le numéro RPPS (France), el número de colegiado (Spain), demographics and any detail you share with us about yourself and your household
Source
We obtain this data from you directly
Market Research
Purpose
To understand your views about certain products and services or to understand your behaviour in different situations
Data collected/processed
Identifier, contact details, email address, voice, image, opinion
Source
We obtain this data from you directly
Scientific Research for academics, public health organisations or Research Council institutes
Purpose
Including but not limiting to clinical studies, health economics and outcomes research (HEOR), non-interventional studies (NIS), real world research (RWR), observational studies, epidemiology research
Data collected/processed
Identifier, contact details, email address, health data, e.g. disease, health status, diagnose, treatment pattern, unmet needs
Source
We obtain this data from you directly, or combined with other secondary database
Scientific Research for commercial companies and charitable research organisations
Purpose
Including but not limiting to clinical studies, health economics and outcomes research (HEOR), non-interventional studies (NIS), real world research (RWR), observational studies, epidemiology research
Data collected/processed
Identifier, contact details, email address, health data, e.g. disease, health status, diagnose, treatment pattern, unmet needs
Source
We obtain this data from you directly, or combined with other secondary database
Safety monitoring (Pharmacovigilance Adverse Events Reporting)
Purpose
Report Adverse Events during our studies to competent authorities
Data collected/processed
Identifier, contact details, email address, disease, treatment, product taken and adverse events
Source
We obtain this data from you directly, or combined with other secondary database
Public Disclosure
Purpose
To share or disclose pursuant to judicial or other government subpoenas, warrants, orders or pursuant to similar and other legal or regulatory requirements, we will provide such information to the appropriate authorities
Data collected/processed
Identifier, name, contact details, email address, incentive received
Source
We obtain this data from you directly, or combined with other secondary database
Fraud Protection
Purpose
Protection of our business interests against fraudulent behaviour
Data collected/processed
IP address, browser specifications, device specifications, postal addresses, email addresses, official identification number (i.e. ME number)
Source
We obtain this data from you directly
Survey Participation Uniqueness
Purpose
Prevention of multiple entries in surveys by the same individuals in line with our Terms and Conditions
Data collected/processed
IP address, browser specifications, device specifications
Source
We obtain this data from you directly
Tracking of the Answers of Recurring Respondents (special research design projects)
Purpose
When you participate in our surveys, we typically use a temporary ID which makes your answers in the survey anonymous to our clients. However, some of our clients have the specific research design need to understand how your opinion has evolved over a period of time. For this specific project type that we call "tracking" projects we will use persistent IDs and we will make this clear at the beginning of each of these surveys. Your survey responses will be considered as personal data and you will have the right to access them. Such projects will contain a notice on the very first page of the survey, so that you can identify them and decide whether or not to take part
Data collected/processed
Persistent unique project-specific identifier
Source
We obtain this data from you directly
Data Matching and Enrichment
Purpose
We enrich the data we hold on file about you by matching your personal data with third parties. This will help us to improve your panel profile and ensure that we select relevant surveys for you.
We utilize matching services (i.e. third parties who are specialized in data management) to acquire additional information about you from public and private data sources (such as social networks, retailers and content subscription services with whom you have an account) or to use your personal data as an aid to develop additional or new types of anonymous data sets (i.e. we compile your aggregate data with data from other consumers to create a new lifestyle segment). The matching service (our data partner) holds the personal data we share for a short time, uses it to assemble the additional information, and then returns the combined information to us. Data partners are contractually bound to delete the data we share with them and/or are not authorised to use it in any way other than for this specific purpose.
Data collected/processed
Persistent unique identifier, contact details, email address, social login, cookie, mobile device ID, official identification number (i.e. ME number)
Source
We obtain this data from you directly or combined with other secondary database
Advertising Targeting and Media Buying Research
Purpose
We use your personal data to help our clients and data partners enrich their data by using lookalike modelling techniques.
Thanks to your participation in our surveys and your profile data, we can help our clients to improve their advertising targeting, and to create better online advertising models, through lookalike modelling or similar research methodologies. We will use your personal data we collect about you through profile building, participation in research surveys or data matching to match with third-parties and platforms (our data partners).
We include contractual safeguards to ensure that you will not automatically be targeted for commercial purposes, as a result of your data being used to help create a lookalike audience, and that our data partners cannot use your data for any other purpose.
Data collected/processed
Persistent unique identifier, contact details, email address, social login, cookie, IP address, mobile device ID, official identification number (i.e. ME number)
Source
We obtain this data from you directly or combined with other secondary database
Ad Exposure and Measurement
Purpose
In addition to cookie-based matching (which you can control and consent to via your panel account), we will use personal data you provide to us, such as an email address, in a direct matching process with third parties (i.e. our clients and publishers) to determine if you are a user of that service (such as social networks, websites, mobile apps) for advertising measurement research purposes. We will identify what advertisements you may have been exposed to on those sites and platforms and measure how brand attitudes or brand recall have impacted sales. The third parties that we work with are not permitted to use the data for any other purpose.
Data collected/processed
Persistent unique identifier, contact details, email address, social login, cookie, IP address, mobile device ID, official identification number (i.e. ME number)
Source
We obtain this data from you directly or combined with other secondary database
3. Third Parties (Clients and Suppliers)
We may share your personal data with our third-party vendors and processors to perform panel management related activities in order to deliver panel services and activities to you. This could include vendors managing or assisting us in managing our panel databases, marketing automation and CRM, quality checks and fraud prevention, incentive management, and customer care. Some vendors will specifically work with us on enriching your panel profile, allowing us to select you for surveys, such as vendors specialized in, but not limited to, data matching, online ad effectiveness measurement, and social media data interactions. Categories of personal data shared with these vendors would typically be, but may not be limited to, name, email address, postal address, phone number, cookie ID, panelist ID, and IP address. Your personal data is not sold to third parties.
Our third-party data partners and publishers are all contractually bound to keep any information they collect and disclose to us, or that we collect and disclose to them, confidential and must protect it with security standards and practices that are equivalent to our own.
4. Confidentiality, Security and Industry Requirements and Where We Store Your Personal Data
We take appropriate technological and organisational measures to protect your personal data, both during transmission and once we receive it. Our security procedures are consistent with generally accepted standards used to protect personal data.
The data that we collect from you may be transferred to and/or stored outside your territory. It may also be processed by staff operating outside your territory who work for us or for one of our suppliers. If your personal data is transferred to, stored at or otherwise processed outside your country or territory, and that country or territory has not been recognized as providing an adequate level of data protection, we will put in place additional safeguards to protect your personal data, as required by applicable law. For example, if you are in the EEA, standard contractual clauses would be used if we process your data outside the EEA.
Your account information and personal data are password protected so that you and only you have access to your information. In order to keep your personal data safe, we recommend that you do not divulge your password to anyone. Lightspeed will never ask you for your password in an unsolicited phone call or in an unsolicited email. Also, please remember to sign out of your Panels account and close your browser window when you have finished visiting our site. This is to ensure that others cannot access your personal data and correspondence if you share a computer with someone else or are using a computer in a public place like a library or Internet cafe. Please change your password regularly.
5. Industry Standards
We adhere to various standards and industry codes depending on your location, including:
European Society for Opinion and Market Research (ESOMAR)
European Pharmaceutical Market Research Association (EphMRA)
Advertising Research Foundation (ARF)
Director General Ordinance Factories (DGOF)
Market Research Society (MRS UK)
Australian Market and Social Research Society (AMSRS)
British Healthcare British Intelligence Association (BHBIA)
Korea Research Association (Kora)
Dutch Market Research Association (MOA)
Intellus Worldwide
Perhimpunan Riset Pemsaran Indonesia (PERPI)
Market Research Society of India (MRSI)
Marketing Opinion And Research Society Philippines (MORES)
China Marketing Research Association (CMRA)
Japan Marketing Research Association (JMRA)
Market Research Society Hong Kong (MRSHK)
Australian Market and Social Research Organisations (AMSRO)
Canadian Marketing Association (CMA)
6. Cookie Disclosure
Cookies are small text files stored on your computer or mobile device by a website that assigns a numerical user ID and stores certain information about your online browsing. They are used to help users navigate websites efficiently and perform certain functions. The website sends information to the browser, which then creates a text file on the user’s computer or mobile device. Every time the user goes back to the same website, the browser retrieves and sends this file to the website's server.
For behavioural tracking research, we use optional cookies / software applications, but only if you have given your consent to these cookies / applications.
As is true of most online surveys, we gather certain information automatically and store it in survey data files. This information may include the following: Internet Protocol addresses (IP address), browser type, Internet service provider (“ISP”); referring/exit pages, operating system and date/time stamp.
We use this automatically collected information to analyse trends such as browser usage and to administer the site, e.g. to optimise the survey experience depending on your browser type. We may also use your IP address to check whether there have been multiple participations in the survey from this IP address and to protect our business against fraudulent behaviour.
Lightspeed defines cookies within 3 categories:
Required to use the Panels site;
Security-specific and
Behavioural or advertising research cookies.
For more information, please log in and access your cookie preferences page where you are able to adjust your cookie settings.
7. Accuracy
We take reasonable steps to keep personal data in our possession or control accurate, complete and current, based on the most recent information made available to us by you and/or by our client.
We rely on you to help us keep your personal data accurate, complete and current by answering our questions honestly. You are responsible for ensuring that you notify us of any changes to your personal data.
8. Children’s Data
Lightspeed recognizes the need to provide further privacy protections with respect to personal data collected from children. We never knowingly invite children under the legal age set by the authorities in the country in which you reside to participate in research studies without parental permission. If it is necessary and appropriate to a particular project to directly involve children under the legal age, we take measures to ensure we have been obtained permission by a parent and/or legal guardian. Lightspeed will provide parents and/or a legal guardian information about the survey topic, any personal or sensitive information which may be collected from the children, the way the data will be used and whether and with whom Lightspeed may share such information. We do not sell children’s personal data.
While the child is completing the survey, it is the responsibility of the parent and/or guardian to supervise them.
9. Sensitive Data
From time to time, Lightspeed may collect personal data that is classified as “special categories” of personal data. This includes racial or ethnic origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, or trade union membership, genetic data, biometric data for the purpose of uniquely identifying a natural person, data concerning health or data concerning a natural person's sex life or sexual orientation. You can always choose whether to provide this data to us.
10. Rights of Individuals
To request access to personal data that we hold about you, you should submit your request in writing to the e-mail address or postal address shown below in the ”How to Contact Us” section. When you make a request you should provide your panellist ID or any other relevant identifiers. We may also request you provide a copy of a valid government issued or official identification (such as drivers licence or passport) if we need to verify your request.
You have the following rights in relation to your personal data:
Right to change your mind and to withdraw your consent;
Right to access your personal data;
Right to rectify your personal data;
Right to erase your personal data from our systems, unless we have legitimate interest reasons for continuing to process the information;
Right to port your personal data (portability right);
Right to restrict processing of your personal data;
Right to object to the processing of your personal data;
Right to opt out of the sale of your personal data (if we sell your data) and
Right to not be discriminated against for exercising any of the rights available to you under applicable data protection laws.
If necessary, we shall also notify third parties to whom we have transferred your personal data of any changes that we make on your request. Note that while Lightspeed communicates to these third parties, Lightspeed is not responsible for the actions taken by these third parties to answer your request. You may be able to access your personal data held by these third parties and correct, amend or delete it where it is inaccurate.
11. Data Storage and Retention
Personal data shall be retained only for such period as is appropriate for its intended and lawful use. Lightspeed shall retain your personal data for as long as you are a member of the Panels. In the event that you unsubscribe from the Panels, we shall retain data for no longer than 3 months after you unsubscribe, unless otherwise required by law. Personal data that is no longer required shall be disposed of in a manner that ensures that the confidential nature is not compromised.
As part of the Company Business Continuity Plan and as required by ISO 27001, ISO 9001, ISO 20252 and in certain instances the law, our electronic systems are backed up and archived. These archives are retained for a defined period of time in a strictly controlled environment. Once expired, the data is deleted and destroyed to ensure the data is erased completely.
12. Updates to Our Privacy Policy
We keep our privacy policy under regular review and it may be amended from time to time and at least every 12 months. We will always have the most up-to-date policy on our website, or within your panel portal. We will record when the policy was last revised. Non-material changes to this Privacy Policy will be announced through the Panels’ sites only. Your continued access to the Panels’ sites and services after such changes conclusively demonstrates your consent to any changes.
13. How to Contact Us
If you have any questions or concerns relating to your privacy or to Lightspeed privacy practices, (or for example you wish to unsubscribe), please feel free to contact us.
Name of our Data Protection Officer (DPO) - Ravinder Roopra, and you can contact Lightspeed:
by email at privacy@lightspeedresearch.com
by post to: Lightspeed, Privacy Office, 4 Millbank, Westminster, London SW1P 3JA, United Kingdom
Calling the 1-800 toll free number listed on Kantar.com (only if you are in the USA).
14. Complaints & Country Specific Disclosure
If you consider that our processing of your personal data infringes data protection laws, you have a legal right to lodge a complaint with a supervisory authority responsible for data protection. You may do so in the EU member state or jurisdiction of your habitual residence, your place of work or the place of the alleged infringement. To find the contact details of your country supervisory authority, please consult our dedicated page.
