The Mayo Clinic, a leader in both laboratory and clinical research, has several clinical trials open for patients with mesothelioma, including:
An evaluation of the Surgery for Mesothelioma After Radiation Therapy (SMART) approach. Instead of the typical multidisciplinary protocol that includes radiation after surgery, this trial will use the opposite approach, measuring how much high-dose radiation shrinks tumor size and decreases spread before aggressive surgery.
The immunotherapy combination of nivolumab (Opdivo) and ipilimumab (Yervoy) against a chemotherapy combination of pemetrexed and cisplatin will be measured in a trial for patients with unresectable disease.
The intrapleural measles virus therapy is being tested for immunological response, potential side effects and best dosage levels for mesothelioma patients. The belief is that this vaccine strain also will kill some cancer cells directly.
A first-line systemic study of an arginine degrading enzyme (ADI-PEG 20) used to restrict an amino acid thought necessary for mesothelioma cells to survive. The study includes a subset of patients who have not started either chemotherapy or radiation treatment.
Parathyroid carcinoma: a silent presentation - Kolluri - Gland Surgery
Parathyroid carcinoma: a silent presentation
Sangeetha Kolluri1, Karan Lal2, Robert Chang1, Nageswara Mandava1
1Flushing Hospital Medical Center, 4500 Parsons Blvd, Flushing, NY 11355, USA; 2New York Institute of Technology College of Osteopathic Medicine, PO BOX 8000 Northern Blvd, Old Westbury, NY 11568, USA
Correspondence to: Dr. Sangeetha Kolluri. 4 Stone Meadow Ct, Plainsboro, NJ 08536, USA. Email: slkolluri2@gmail.com.
Abstract: Primary hyperparathyroidism is most commonly diagnosed in the setting of benign parathyroid adenoma(s). However, it can also rarely be caused by parathyroid malignancy and when it is, the clinical manifestations far supercede the presentation of benign parathyroid adenoma. We report a case of suspected benign parathyroid adenoma induced primary hyperparathyroidism in which pathologic diagnosis of parathyroid carcinoma was made. Due to the lack of signs and symptoms, this indicates parathyroid malignancy can be masked clinically as benign adenomas, until a histologic diagnosis can be ascertained.
Keywords: Hyperparathyroidism; mutation; parathyroid
Submitted Jun 25, 2014. Accepted for publication Jul 29, 2014.
doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2227-684X.2014.07.02
Parathyroid carcinoma is the rarest endocrine malignancy and represents 1% of all cases of primary hyperparathyroidism (1). Patients often present with severe fatigue, nephrolithiasis, pathologic fractures, brown tumors, hypercalcemic crises, and if not recognized, obdurate hypercalcemia (2). Serum calcium and PTH levels are also much higher in parathyroid cancer patients than in patients with functional parathyroid adenoma; however, patients have been identified with non-functional non-secreting cancers, and they are often associated with a poor prognostic outcome. Non-functional parathyroid carcinomas represents 1.9% of all parathyroid carcinomas, whereas parathyroid adenomas are often benign and have no significant clinical presentation (3,4). Additionally, a palpable nodule located in the parathyroid region(s) is highly indicative of malignancy (2). The patient was completely asymptomatic with elevated free urine calcium, elevated parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels, and elevated serum calcium. She presented for surgical excision of a proposed hypersecreting adenoma. Reported cases of patients with recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy in patients without a past surgical history involving the neck is indicative of a more invasive lesion (1).
A 62-year-old Caucasian female presented to ambulatory surgery for a parathryoidectomy for hyperparathyroidism. The patient denied any neck masses or symptoms of throat tightness or dysphagia, and denied fatigue. No palpable neck mass was evident on physical examination. Her past medical history was significant for hypertension and Hepatitis C. Serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) level prior to surgery was 384.1 pg/mL and post-operative serum calcium level was 13.3 mg/dL. No other significant findings were evident on complete blood count, basic metabolic panel, or liver function testing.
A preoperative ultrasound revealed a 2 cm mass in the right lower pole of the parathyroid region. A follow-up sestamibi displayed increased radionucleotide uptake in same right location with the impression of a parathyroid adenoma. Upon surgical exploration, the parathyroid mass was found to be grossly fibrotic and irregular in comparison to adjacent tissue (Figure 1). This tissue was removed with adjacent thyroid tissue, along with two adjacent lymph nodes. Histopathological examination revealed parathyroid carcinoma with contained capsular invasion with thyroid and lymph node specimens negative for malignancy (Figure 2). Large pleomorphic cells with scattered mitoses and vascular invasion was also evident (Figure 3).
Figure 1 A 2 cm × 2.2 cm × 1.5 cm mass found in right inferior pole of the parathyroid gland. Noticeable fibrosis and gross morphology exhibits malignant features.
Figure 2 Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining at 100× shows capsular invasion with malignant cells with fibrous tissue invasion of the parathyroid gland.
Figure 3 Hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining at 400× shows nests of large pleomorphic cells with scattered mitoses that are identified with arrows.
The diagnosis of parathyroid carcinoma typically relies on the patient's clinical presentation, laboratory studies, imaging, and ultimately histopathology. In our case, the patient was absent of symptoms with only elevated serum calcium, elevated PTH level, elevated urinary calcium, and non-malignant imaging. Histopathological examination ultimately proved to be the final diagnosis. Ultrasound and Sestamibi scans are of additional benefit in localizing lesions and determining active vs. non-active lesions. The majority of parathyroid neoplasms are found in the inferior gland position, which is likely related to the different embryologic descent paths taken by the superior and inferior glands (5). Patients suspected of having parathyroid carcinoma should not undergo pre-operative biopsy procedures since the breaking away of cells in transit may serves as a nidus for ectopic dissemination of active parathyroid tissue (6,7). Measurement of intraoperative PTH level has been widely adopted to confirm removal of the hyperactive gland, and is considered satisfactory when the value is <50% of the pre-excision PTH level. However, the McGill University Thyroid Cancer Center has questioned this practice for adenomas localized preoperatively with two concordant imaging modalities, and instead recommends intraoperative PTH testing only if concordance between sestamibi scan, ultrasound and MRI cannot be established (8). In addition, intra-operative frozen section, although used frequently, has been shown to waste important tissue, and is therefore not recommended especially since tissue specimens are small and should be reserved for permanent section. However, in our case frozen sections allowed us to remove not just the mass but also adjacent tissue and lymph nodes to assess for local metastasis. Because of the difficulties in differentiating benign from malignant lesions, a set of standards set by Shantz and Castleman in 1973 has been adapted in ascertaining the diagnosis of a malignant parathyroid neoplasm. These include: mitoses within tumor parenchymal cells, vascular or capsular invasion by tumor cells, and a homogenous group of chief cells in a lobular pattern separated by thick fibrous septae (9,10). The parathyroid mass in our patient was grossly adhesed to the underlying thyroid tissue indicating heavy capsular invasion, the usual hallmark of parathyroid malignancy. In a large case series of 358 people, it was found that the most common sites of invasion, in descending order, were: ipsilateral thyroid gland, infrahyoid muscles, ipsilateral recurrent laryngeal nerve, esophagus, and trachea (3).
Molecular pathogenesis of parathyroid carcinoma has in part been revealed through studying Hyperparathyroidism-Jaw Tumor (HP-JT) syndrome. HP-JT is a rare autosomal dominant disease in which patients develop ossifying bone tumors of the maxillary and/or mandibular regions in conjunction with primary hyperparathyroidism, renal masses, and uterine masses (11). About 15% of the parathyroid lesions causing hyperparathyroidism in HP-JT syndrome are parathyroid carcinomas (12). A study of 14 families with HP-JT syndrome revealed germline inactivating mutations in the HRPT2/CDC73 tumor suppressor gene (13). The gene codes for a protein parafibromin which has been implicated in a variety of regulatory processes as well as histone methylation of promoter regions of various genes (14). Multiple studies have reported HRPT2/CDC73 gene mutations even in sporadic parathyroid carcinomas, validating the role of this mutation in development of parathyroid malignancy (15,16). Supporting the malignant nature of this mutation, other studies examined benign parathyroid lesions including adenomas, and/or hyperplasias for evidence of the mutation, with no identifiable genetic aberrations (15,17). Although meta-analyses have indicated an incidence of less than 1% of the mutation in benign parathyroid lesions (17). This data supports the use of genetic testing in parathyroid lesions suspected for malignancy. Due to different histopathological approaches used to diagnose parathyroid carcinoma, identifying a HPRT2/CDC73 mutation would be a definitive clue to a malignant parathyroid lesion. Case reports of histologically benign but metastatic parathyroid lesions have been reported that tested positive for the mutation further advocating the use of genetic testing in suspected parathyroid malignancy (18). In addition, it is recommended to test all parathyroid carcinoma confirmed patients for the mutation because up to one in five patients will have hidden HP-JT syndrome (16).
Multiple endocrine neoplasia (MEN)-1 syndrome is a rare autosomal dominant disease characterized primarily by a constellation of parathyroid adenomas, pituitary adenomas, and pancreatic tumors. The incidence of parathyroid carcinoma in MEN-1 patients is extremely rare; however, novel germline mutations in the MEN-1 gene have been isolated which may validate genetic testing in select individuals presenting with parathyroid carcinoma for the MEN-1 syndrome (19).
Treatment of parathyroid carcinoma is dependent on the stage of diagnosis. An en-bloc resection of the ipsilateral thyroid tissue with associated parathyroid lesions is recommended to decrease rate of recurrence. In the same case series of 358 en bloc resections, results showed an 8% decrease in local recurrence as compared to a 51% rate of local recurrence in patients who received just removal of the involved parathyroid gland(s) (3). Although this is recommended, our diagnosis was hinted by intra-operative examination and confirmed by permanent section where no evidence of further invasion was evident; therefore, a conservative parathyroidectomy was performed. Cervical lymph node metastasis is rare with presence in less than one in five affected patients; however, it is advised that the tracheoesophageal groove with level VI nodes be explored and removed with further dissection only if gross metastatic changes to other chains of lymph nodes is present (1,20,21). When parathyroid carcinoma is metastatic or unresectable, the resulting hypercalcemia is typically treated with bisphosphonates and calcium receptor agonists; however, moderate success using dacarbazine and denosumab has been reported for those patients with a refractory response (22).
Disclosure: This case was submitted as a case report poster for the American College of Osteopathic Surgeons annual meeting September 2014. No other financial or academic disclosures exist.
Shane E. Clinical review 122: Parathyroid carcinoma. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2001;86:485-93. [PubMed]
Dilli A, Gultekin SS, Ayaz UY, et al. Parathyroid carcinoma. JBR-BTR 2013;96:224-5. [PubMed]
Koea JB, Shaw JH. Parathyroid cancer: biology and management. Surg Oncol 1999;8:155-65. [PubMed]
Sharretts JM, Kebebew E, Simonds WF. Parathyroid cancer. Semin Oncol 2010;37:580-90. [PubMed]
Goldner B, Lee B, Stabile BE. The unequal distribution of parathyroid neoplasms in male patients. Am Surg 2013;79:1022-5. [PubMed]
Spinelli C, Bonadio AG, Berti P, et al. Cutaneous spreading of parathyroid carcinoma after fine needle aspiration cytology. J Endocrinol Invest 2000;23:255-7. [PubMed]
Kebebew E, Arici C, Duh QY, et al. Localization and reoperation results for persistent and recurrent parathyroid carcinoma. Arch Surg 2001;136:878-85. [PubMed]
Zawawi F, Mlynarek AM, Cantor A, et al. Intraoperative parathyroid hormone level in parathyroidectomy: which patients benefit from it? J Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 2013;42:56. [PubMed]
Schantz A, Castleman B. Parathyroid carcinoma. A study of 70 cases. Cancer 1973;31:600-5. [PubMed]
Marcus S, Holley AC, Persad P, et al. Hypercalcemia in an elderly patient. JAMA Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg 2014;140:169-70. [PubMed]
Kutcher MR, Rigby MH, Bullock M, et al. Hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome. Head Neck 2013;35:E175-7. [PubMed]
Carlson D. Parathyroid pathology: hyperparathyroidism and parathyroid tumors. Arch Pathol Lab Med 2010;134:1639-44. [PubMed]
Carpten JD, Robbins CM, Villablanca A, et al. HRPT2, encoding parafibromin, is mutated in hyperparathyroidism-jaw tumor syndrome. Nat Genet 2002;32:676-80. [PubMed]
Rozenblatt-Rosen O, Hughes CM, Nannepaga SJ, et al. The parafibromin tumor suppressor protein is part of a human Paf1 complex. Mol Cell Biol 2005;25:612-20. [PubMed]
Howell VM, Haven CJ, Kahnoski K, et al. HRPT2 mutations are associated with malignancy in sporadic parathyroid tumours. J Med Genet 2003;40:657-63. [PubMed]
Shattuck TM, Välimäki S, Obara T, et al. Somatic and germ-line mutations of the HRPT2 gene in sporadic parathyroid carcinoma. N Engl J Med 2003;349:1722-9. [PubMed]
Krebs LJ, Shattuck TM, Arnold A. HRPT2 mutational analysis of typical sporadic parathyroid adenomas. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2005;90:5015-7. [PubMed]
Sarquis MS, Silveira LG, Pimenta FJ, et al. Familial hyperparathyroidism: surgical outcome after 30 years of follow-up in three families with germline HRPT2 mutations. Surgery 2008;143:630-40. [PubMed]
Juodelė L, Serapinas D, Sabaliauskas G, et al. Carcinoma of two parathyroid glands caused by a novel MEN1 gene mutation - a rare feature of the MEN 1 syndrome. Medicina (Kaunas) 2011;47:635-9. [PubMed]
Ricci G, Assenza M, Barreca M, et al. Parathyroid carcinoma: the importance of high clinical suspicion for a correct management. Int J Surg Oncol 2012;2012:649148.
Pelizzo MR, Piotto A, Bergamasco A, et al. Parathyroid carcinoma. Therapeutic strategies derived from 20 years of experience. Minerva Endocrinol 2001;26:23-9. [PubMed]
Vellanki P, Lange K, Elaraj D, et al. Denosumab for management of parathyroid carcinoma-mediated hypercalcemia. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 2014;99:387-90. [PubMed]
Cite this article as: Kolluri S, Lal K, Chang R, Mandava N. Parathyroid carcinoma: a silent presentation. Gland Surgery 2014;3(3):211-214. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2227-684X.2014.07.02
Preventing and Treating Obesity in Girls and Young Women to Curb the Epidemic - Kral - 2004 - Obesity - Wiley Online Library
Previous article in issue: Psychological Considerations in Pediatric Weight Management
Next article in issue: Obesity Research in Canada: Literature Overview of the Last 3 Decades
Preventing and Treating Obesity in Girls and Young Women to Curb the Epidemic
DOI: 10.1038/oby.2004.193 View/save citation
Department of Surgery, Box 40, SUNY Downstate Medical Center, 450 Clarkson Avenue, Brooklyn, NY 11203. E-mail: jkral@downstate.edu
Obesity and its serious comorbidities, type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease, hypertension, and dyslipidemia, have reached epidemic proportions in adults and children. Female obesity is more prevalent and, thus, has greater epidemiological importance: Mothers transmit the disease epigenetically and genetically. Maternal obesity affects maternal health, pregnancy outcome, and fetal, neonatal, childhood, and ultimately adult morbidity and mortality. Obesity is easy to diagnose, as are most of its risk factors, yet very little progress has been made in preventing the disease.
During a brief period of rapid early growth, there is imprinting of antecedents of adult obesity and obesity-related disease. Because of the rapidity of this early growth and the relative brevity of the critical period, early recognition and prompt intervention are necessary and possibly sufficient to prevent the development of obesity. Identification of inappropriate rapid weight gain through frequent weighing should trigger immediate adjustment of energy intake, a simple intervention in bottle-fed infants, the ones at greatest risk for becoming obese.
This review presents a step-care strategy with fail-safe action levels starting with maternal education and diet, exercise, and behavior modification for mother and child and progressing to drug treatment and, in selected cases, laparoscopic surgery for young women of childbearing age in whom other measures have failed. This approach is predicated on the assumption that careful monitoring and responsive supplementation of potential deficiencies is easier to achieve, more cost-effective, and safer than effectively treating manifest obesity and its comorbidities in adults.
10.1038/oby.2004.193
Received for review November 25, 2003; Accepted in final form July 23, 2004
1 Troy J. Pereira, Mario A. Fonseca, Kristyn E. Campbell, Brittany L. Moyce, Laura K. Cole, Grant M. Hatch, Christine A. Doucette, Julianne Klein, Michel Aliani, Vernon W. Dolinsky, Maternal obesity characterized by gestational diabetes increases the susceptibility of rat offspring to hepatic steatosis via a disrupted liver metabolome, The Journal of Physiology, 2015, 593, 14, 3181 Wiley Online Library
2 L M Nicholas, J L Morrison, L Rattanatray, S Zhang, S E Ozanne, I C McMillen, The early origins of obesity and insulin resistance: timing, programming and mechanisms, International Journal of Obesity, 2015 CrossRef
3 D. Berglind, M. Willmer, E. Näslund, P. Tynelius, T. I. A. Sørensen, F. Rasmussen, Differences in gestational weight gain between pregnancies before and after maternal bariatric surgery correlate with differences in birth weight but not with scores on the body mass index in early childhood, Pediatric Obesity, 2014, 9, 6, 427 Wiley Online Library
4 Troy J. Pereira, Brittany L. Moyce, Stephanie M. Kereliuk, Vernon W. Dolinsky, Influence of maternal overnutrition and gestational diabetes on the programming of metabolic health outcomes in the offspring: experimental evidence1, Biochemistry and Cell Biology, 2014, 1 CrossRef
5 Alexander Arkin Berger, Rachel Peragallo-Urrutia, Wanda K Nicholson, Systematic review of the effect of individual and combined nutrition and exercise interventions on weight, adiposity and metabolic outcomes after delivery: evidence for developing behavioral guidelines for post-partum weight control, BMC Pregnancy and Childbirth, 2014, 14, 1 CrossRef
7 Bethany P. Cummings, James L. Graham, Kimber L. Stanhope, Michael L. Chouinard, Peter J. Havel, Maternal Ileal Interposition Surgery Confers Metabolic Improvements to Offspring Independent of Effects on Maternal Body Weight in UCD-T2DM Rats, Obesity Surgery, 2013, 23, 12, 2042 CrossRef
8 Kristoffer S. Berlin, Jane Hamel-Lambert, Chris DeLamatre, Obesity and Overweight Status Health Disparities Among Low-Income Rural Appalachian Preschool Children, Children's Health Care, 2013, 42, 1, 15 CrossRef
9 Roger A. Fielding, John Gunstad, Deborah R. Gustafson, Steven B. Heymsfield, John G. Kral, Lenore J. Launer, Josef Penninger, David I. W. Phillips, Nikolaos Scarmeas, The paradox of overnutrition in aging and cognition, Annals of the New York Academy of Sciences, 2013, 1287, 1, 31 Wiley Online Library
10 Laura Dhariwal, John G. Kral, Offspring outcomes after maternal BPD: euphenics for the epidemic?, Surgery for Obesity and Related Diseases, 2012, 8, 4, 391 CrossRef
11 Maria Grazia Dalfrà, Luca Busetto, Nino Cristiano Chilelli, Annunziata Lapolla, Pregnancy and foetal outcome after bariatric surgery: a review of recent studies, The Journal of Maternal-Fetal & Neonatal Medicine, 2012, 25, 9, 1537 CrossRef
12 John G. Kral, Ruth A. Kava, Patrick M. Catalano, Barbara J. Moore, Severe Obesity: The Neglected Epidemic, Obesity Facts, 2012, 5, 2, 254 CrossRef
13 Maria E D'Alessandro, Maria E Oliva, Maria R Ferreira, Dante Selenscig, Yolanda B Lombardo, Adriana Chicco, Sucrose-rich feeding during rat pregnancy-lactation and/or after weaning alters glucose and lipid metabolism in adult offspring, Clinical and Experimental Pharmacology and Physiology, 2012, 39, 7, 623 Wiley Online Library
14 Zaher O Merhi, Sangita Jindal, Staci E Pollack, Harry J Lieman, Pregnancy following bariatric surgery, Expert Review of Obstetrics & Gynecology, 2011, 6, 1, 57 CrossRef
15 Megan Warin, Vivienne Moore, Tanya Zivkovic, Michael Davies, Telescoping the origins of obesity to women's bodies: How gender inequalities are being squeezed out of Barker's hypothesis, Annals of Human Biology, 2011, 38, 4, 453 CrossRef
16 Kirsten Hartil, Patricia M Vuguin, Michael Kruse, Esther Schmuel, Ariana Fiallo, Carlos Vargas, Matthew J Warner, Jorge L Durand, Linda A Jelicks, Maureen J Charron, Maternal Substrate Utilization Programs the Development of the Metabolic Syndrome in Male Mice Exposed to High Fat In Utero, Pediatric Research, 2009, 66, 4, 368 CrossRef
17 K. L.K. Tamashiro, C. E. Terrillion, J. Hyun, J. I. Koenig, T. H. Moran, Prenatal Stress or High-Fat Diet Increases Susceptibility to Diet-Induced Obesity in Rat Offspring, Diabetes, 2009, 58, 5, 1116 CrossRef
18 Rita Black Monsen, Kids, Weight, and Health Risk, Journal of Pediatric Nursing, 2008, 23, 3, 215 CrossRef
19 John G. Kral, A stitch in time versus a life in misery, Surgery for Obesity and Related Diseases, 2007, 3, 1, 2 CrossRef
20 E.E. Littlejohn, R.E. Weiss, D. Deplewski, D.V. Edidin, R. Rosenfield, Intractable Early Childhood Obesity as the Initial Sign of Insulin Resistant Hyperinsulinism and Precursor of Polycystic Ovary Syndrome, Journal of Pediatric Endocrinology and Metabolism, 2007, 20, 1 CrossRef
Intramedullary Chondrosarcoma of Proximal Humerus - pdf download
Intramedullary Chondrosarcoma of Proximal Humerus - Download this document for free, or read online. Document in PDF available to download.
RETRACTED This article has been retracted as it was found to contain a substantial amount of material, without referencing, from the following published article: "Review: Imaging of Chondrosarcomas," by L. Ollivier, D. Vanel, and J. Leclère, in Cancer Imaging.
Case Reports in RadiologyVolume 2012 2012, Article ID 642062, 7 pages
Case ReportDepartment of Radiodiagnosis, Dr. D. Y. Patil Medical College, Hospital and Research Centre, Pimpri, Maharashtra, Pune 411006, India
Primary chondrosarcoma is the third most frequent primary malignancy of bone after myeloma and osteosarcoma. It is ranging from slow growing nonmetastasising lesions to highly aggressive lesions. We report a case of primary intramedullary chondrosarcoma of proximal humerus. A 60-year-old female presented with pain and hard swelling involving the left arm for 5 months. Radiograph showed a lucent expansile intramedullary lesion with matrix calcification and associated soft tissue mass. CT confirmed the finding. MRI showed a lobulated lesion which is hyperintense on T2WI with low signal fibrous septae. Increased tracer uptake was seen on bone scan. Histopathology confirmed the radiology diagnosis. The patient underwent wide resection and endoprosthetic reconstruction of proximal humerus.
The College of Optometrists in Vision Development (COVD) is a non-profit, international membership association of eye care professionals. Established in 1971, COVD provides board certification for eye care providers who are prepared to offer state-of-the-art services in behavioral and developmental vision care, optometric vision therapy and vision rehabilitation. The COVD International Examination and Certification Board process includes a rigorous evaluation of the eye care professional's knowledge and abilities in providing developmental and behavioral vision care for patients. Optometrists who successfully complete their certification process are Board Certified and are designated Fellows of COVD (College of Optometrists in Vision Development). This process involves a Certification Board review and acceptance of written essays on diagnosis and treatment of various areas of visual function and written case reports including the basis and rationale of treatment. Documentation meeting specific criteria of experience of the optometrist in vision development and vision therapy is submitted and verified. Upon successful completion of the written portion and documentation, optometric candidates are then eligible to take the exam and sit for the final oral interview to take place at an annual meeting with members of the Certification Board. As of April 2015, there are only 7 practicing optometrists in the state of Indiana who hold the distinction of FCOVD.
Dyslexia type symptoms can occur when there are eye teaming, eye tracking and perceptual problems that can cause words, letters and numbers to appear to move or jump on a page. Many people mistakenly think that they or their children have dyslexia because they can see 20/20 with or without corrective lenses and still have trouble reversing words, letters and numbers. Many of these same children and adults have never been tested for dyslexia or told that they may have a vision disorder. There are cases where both problems are present. True dyslexia can still be present in rare cases after vision disorders are resolved, but in many cases what was thought of as dyslexic symptoms disappear once the eye teaming, tracking and perceptual vision skills are strengthened.
Undiagnosed vision problems can often be confused ADD or ADHD. Attention span, restlessness and frustration in the classroom and out of the classroom can result from not being able to process the millions of pieces of visual information needed to learn and function in tasks that are needed everyday. There are many symptoms that visual disorders, ADD and ADHD have in common. Please make note of the symptom checklist provided on this website. There are several symptoms that are unique to ADD and ADHD such as running and climbing excessively, difficulty in playing quietly and always being "on the go". When the problem is a visual disorder, there are many instances where parents hear of symptomatic behaviors in the classroom and are baffled as to why they do not observe those same behaviors in the home where visual tasks are less demanding.
Open Letter: Dr. Bauernfiend has spent countless hours reading through medical publications in an effort to shed some light on the views of the medical community and where that information is sourced. The recommendations made in a recent Joint Statement and subsequent Joint Technical Report published by the American Academy of Pediatrics is in short incomplete. Please include Dr. Bauernfiend's review in addition to other information available to make a fully informed choice for your family, student or patient.
The College of Optometrists in Vision Development also maintains an archive of published research articles and clinical studies on the effectiveness of vision therapy. In addition, thousands of patients each year who experience the benefits of vision therapy can attest to its positive impact on their lives.
In 2008, the National Institute of Health published a study in the Archives of Opthalmology which demonstrated that in-office vision therapy is the most effective treatment for convergence insufficiency a vision problem which impacts children and adults.
When the program is complete, the benefits of vision therapy will last for a lifetime. Accurate focusing and efficient use of both eyes together is a reflex which, when conditioned, should operate effortlessly. Vision therapy, as related to visual perception, prepares children for lifelong learning, and it fills in gaps for many adults who have lost visual skills and abilities.

Sublime is the story of two teens, Lucy and Colin, who fall in love, but the the problem is … Lucy's a ghost.
DIAZERO 1 contains glimepiride which belongs to a blood sugar lowering group of medicines called sulfonylureas. It is used for treatment of diabetes (a disease where the body does not produce enough insulin to control the level of blood sugar). Oral hypoglycemics help control blood sugar level.
It is used in the treatment of non-insulin dependent (Type II) diabetes mellitus. Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a condition where your body does not produce enough insulin, and or the insulin that produced by your body does not work. When your body make too much sugar it gets build up in the blood may also leads to high blood sugar. This can lead to serious medical problems. If type 2 diabetes mellitus cannot be adequately controlled with diet and exercise alone, DIAZERO 1 may be used to treat this condition.
USES OF DIAZERO 1
HOW DIAZERO 1 WORKS
DIAZERO 1 in lowering the blood glucose appears to be dependent on stimulating the release of insulin from functioning pancreatic beta cells. It lowers blood sugar by stimulating the pancreas to produce insulin which is essential to break down sugar in the body and helping the body to use insulin effectively.
Always take DIAZERO 1 exactly as prescribed by your doctor. This medicine must be taken after food and try to take at the same time each day. Swallow the medicine whole with plenty of water. Do not crush or chew the medicine.
SIDE EFFECTS OF DIAZERO 1
DIAZERO 1 is not recommended for use in pregnant women unless necessary. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
DIAZERO 1 is not recommended for use in breastfeeding women unless necessary. Discuss the risks and benefits with your doctor.
DIAZERO 1 should be taken with caution in patients with severe kidney disease. Consult your doctor for advice.
DIAZERO 1 should be taken with caution in patients with severe liver disease. Consult your doctor for advice.
DIAZERO 1 should be used with caution in patients suffering from active heart diseases. Before taking, this medicine consult your doctor.
The Human Protein Atlas portal is a publicly available database with millions of high-resolution images showing the spatial distribution of proteins in 44 different normal human tissues and 20 different cancer types, as well as 46 different human cell lines. The data is released together with application-specific validation performed for each antibody, including immunohistochemistry, Western blot analysis and, for a large fraction, a protein array assay and immunofluorescent-based confocal microscopy. The database has been developed in a gene-centric manner with the inclusion of all human genes predicted from genome efforts. Search functionalities allow for complex queries regarding protein expression profiles, protein classes and chromosome location.
The Human Protein Atlas contains information for a large majority of all human protein-coding genes regarding the expression and localization of the corresponding proteins based on both RNA and protein data. The atlas consists of four subparts; normal tissue, cancer, subcellular and cell lines with each subpart containing images and data based on antibody-based proteomics and transcriptomics. The tissue atlas contains information of 44 different human tissues and organs with annotation data for altogether 83 different cell types. The transcriptomics data provide quantitative data on gene expression levels across the tissues and organs, while the antibody-based protein profiles show the spatial distribution at a single cell level for the corresponding protein in the various substructures and cell types of the tissues. Version 15 of the Human Protein Atlas contains RNA data for 99.9% and protein data for 86% of the predictive human genes and includes more than 11 million images with primary data from immunohistochemistry and immunofluorescence.
The normal tissue atlas contains information and images regarding the expression profiles of human genes both at the mRNA and protein level. The protein expression data is derived from annotation of immunohistochemical staining of cell populations in all major human tissues and organs, including the brain, liver, kidney, lymphoid tissues, heart, lung, skin, gastrointestinal tract, pancreas, endocrine tissues and the reproductive organs. In total, 44 different human tissues are included and contain annotation data for altogether 83 different cell types. The antibody-based protein profiles are qualitative and describe the spatial distribution, cell type specificity and the rough relative abundance of proteins in these tissues, whereas the mRNA data provide quantitative data on gene expression levels. For each gene, the immunohistochemical staining profile is taken into account together with mRNA data and gene/protein characterization data to yield an “annotated protein expression” profile. This procedure is performed for single antibodies as well as paired antibodies (two or more independent antibodies directed against different, non-overlapping epitopes on the same protein) to derive a best estimate of the correct protein expression based on available data.
The mouse brain atlas is a complement to the normal tissue atlas, providing a more extended overview of the brain proteome. In the normal tissue atlas three forebrain regions (cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and lateral ventricle) and one hindbrain (cerebellum) region is included, by adding full mouse brain sections the possibility of detecting protein expression currently not detected in the human samples is increased. A selected set of genes are profiled in the mouse brain providing detailed information on the regional and cellular location of proteins in the brain.
The cell line atlas contains expression profiles from a diverse panel of human-derived cell lines at both the mRNA (n=45) and protein level (n=46). In addition, protein data is also displayed for patient blood samples representing normal peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and different types of leukemia and lymphoma; each antibody is tested on two samples of PBMC and ten samples representing AML, ALL, CML, and CLL. Protein expression has been assessed using immunohistochemistry (IHC), and profiles are currently available for 28% of all protein-coding genes based on 6868 well-validated antibodies. IHC staining positivity has been quantified using the automated image analysis software TMAx (Beecher instruments, Sun Praire, WI) (Strömberg et al. 2007). All underlying images of IHC stained cells and cell lines are displayed, along with transcript levels and relative IHC scores.
Alongside the immunohistochemical pipeline generating the three sub-atlases above, antibodies are also used for confocal immunofluorescence analyses to generate a subcellular protein atlas. This sub-atlas contains high resolution, multicolor images of immunofluorescently stained cells that reveal spatial expression patterns at the subcellular level. For each antibody, two suitable human cell lines are selected for the immunofluorescence analysis on the basis of RNA expression. The third human cell line is always U-2 OS. The cells are stained in a standardized way where the antibody of interest is labeled green, the cytoskeleton is labeled red, the endoplasmic reticulum is labeled yellow, and nuclei are stained blue by DAPI. The images are manually annotated in terms of localization at the organelle level, staining intensity and staining characteristics.
The Human Protein Atlas project was initiated in 2003 by funding from the Knut and Alice Wallenberg foundation. Primarily based in Sweden, the HPA-project involves the joint efforts of the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm, Uppsala University, Uppsala Akademiska University Hospital and more recently also Science for Life Laboratory based in both Uppsala and Stockholm. Formal collaborations are with groups in India, South Korea, Japan, China, Germany, France, Switzerland, USA, Canada, Denmark, Finland, The Netherlands, Spain and Italy.
The first version of the HPA-website was launched in 2005 and contained protein expression data based on approximately 700 antibodies. Since then, each new release has added more and more data and also added new functionalities and new features to the website. Some important changes were the inclusion of cell-line data in version 2, and the inclusion of confocal images showing subcellular localizations in version 3. Version 3 also included a new search function that allowed for building queries. In version 4, the overall database structure was shifted from a previously antibody-centric structure, to a gene-centric structure in order to include information on all genes predicted by Ensembl. The next major restructuring came in 2010 with the version 7 when the concept of annotated protein expression for paired antibodies (two independent antibodies directed against different, non-overlapping epitopes on the same protein) was introduced. In 2013, the version 12 of the protein atlas database was complemented with transcriptomics profiles from 27 normal tissues, and the format with four sub-atlases was introduced. Version 13 was released at end of 2014 and included an analysis of all major organ and tissues in the human body using transcriptomics and antibody-based profiling. The results were summarized on interactive knowledge-pages divided into 7 human proteomes and 27 tissues and organs.
The high-throughput approach to human proteomics rests on two main pillars; the streamlined production of antibodies and the use of tissue microarray (TMA) technology for immunohistochemistry. The antibody production process begins with a bioinformatics analysis of the protein-coding part of the genome. For every protein, the amino acid sequence is compared to all other putative protein-coding genes to identify a stretch of 50-150 amino acids that has as low homology as possible with respect to all other proteins. Transmembrane regions including hydrophobic and less immunogenic regions are avoided. These sequences are then cloned from cDNA libraries using specifically designed primers and transformed into E. coli bacteria that produce the corresponding peptide chain, here called a PrEST (Protein Epitope Signature Tag). The PrEST is used for various applications including immunization to produce antibodies, and for affinity purification of the polyclonal antisera. Numerous quality assurance and validation steps are included throughout this production chain and all generated antibodies undergo a validation regime and basic characterization before being approved for profiling on tissue microarrays.
The tissue microarray technology enables high-throughput immunohistochemistry on multiple samples within a single experiment. The tissue microarrays used in the Human Protein Atlas project typically consists of 72 different tissue samples, each one punched out as 1 mm diameter cores from formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue blocks. These sampled cores are then arranged in a matrix on a single receiver paraffin block. The resulting receiver block (or TMA) is subsequently sectioned into 200-250 sections that are used for separate immunohistochemical staining experiments. Using this approach, many data points are generated under similar conditions, reducing intra-experimental variation, and saving both time and cost as compared to staining all tissues separately. The Human Protein Atlas project routinely generates protein expression profiles for each antibody by staining 9 different standardized TMA-sets containing samples from 44 different normal human tissues, 20 different cancer types, 46 different human cell lines and 6 hematopoietic cell types from patients.
The stained TMA-slides are then scanned using a digital slide scanner and all tissue cores are separated into individual image files that are uploaded to an internal annotation software and annotated by pathologists. The stainings are scored with respect to the intensity of immunoreactivity, the fraction of immunostained cells and cellular localization of immunoreactivity. The annotation output is then reviewed and compared with available mRNA data, gene/protein characterization data, and if applicable, results from paired antibodies (antibodies directed towards non-overlapping epitiopes on the same protein), before it is finally approved for publication on the Human Protein Atlas website.
Feel the #AfterShock of Das Energi Festival with Eptic at #EnergiWednesdays on his Anti-Human North American Tour!	
Eptic presents the Anti-Human Tour at Sky SLC on August 29th along with some very special guests TBD!
A collaborative effort led by the University of Kentucky colleges of agriculture, pharmacy and public health has attracted the eye of the White House Director of National Drug Control Policy.
Director Gil Kerlikowske, U.S. Rep. Ben Chandler, key congressional staffers, Lexington Mayor Jim Gray and UK experts met at UK’s Hilary J. Boone Center today for a roundtable discussion on a community-based approach to prevention and control of prescription drug abuse. They were particularly interested in the Different Faces of Substance Abuse , a conference led by the UK College of Agriculture ’s Health Education through Extension Leadership program, which targets prescription drug abuse at a grassroots level.
"Our nation is facing a prescription drug abuse epidemic, and the Obama administration is taking steps to reduce prescription drug abuse and its consequences by supporting education, monitoring, proper disposal and law enforcement efforts,” Kerlikowske said. “Our collaborative approach to reducing this public health threat requires all of us to work together, and we recognize the University of Kentucky for tackling this problem and supporting vital efforts in Kentucky to prevent drug abuse and heal abusers."
Senator Mitch McConnell, who encouraged Kerlikowske to visit Kentucky and secured funding for UK’s Health Education through Extension Leadership program (HEEL), said he appreciates the director's focus on this program.
"For many years, I have been proud to support the work that the University of Kentucky and the Cooperative Extension Service do to implement programs designed to improve the health of Kentucky communities through outreach and education,” he said. ”I am pleased that Director Kerlikowskie had the opportunity to see the good that has come from this program."
Additionally during the roundtable, representatives from law enforcement and local and state agencies discussed their efforts. In addition, eight congressional staff members, including representatives of McConnell, were in attendance to learn about the various efforts across Kentucky.
Cooperative Extension programs in health, including the Different Faces of Substance Abuse, were boosted by the creation of HEEL in 2002. McConnell and UK College of Agriculture Dean Scott Smith conceived and initiated the project, and McConnell championed federal funding through a U.S. Department of Agriculturegrant.
“We are pleased that Director Kerlikowske recognizes our work in addressing the issue of prescription drug abuse,” said Ann Vail, director of the UK School of Human Environmental Sciences and assistant director of family and consumer sciences extension.
“I am glad Director Kerlikowske came to Kentucky and sparked this conversation,” Chandler said. “Today’s discussion was one the commonwealth desperately needed to have. We have a real problem with drugs in Central Kentucky, and this isn’t a problem that local sheriffs, Chrysalis House, UK, KASPER or even the federal government can fight on their own. We all have to work together on all levels from local to state to federal to make meaningful progress. Today was a big first step.”
In a 2006 study published by the U.S. Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration , Kentucky led the nation in the percentage of residents who reported using psychotherapeutic drugs, prescription pain relievers and prescription tranquilizers for nonmedical reasons within the previous year.
“Prescription drug abuse is a pervasive problem that afflicts people of every income level, most notably in Eastern Kentucky,” said Lt. Col. Joe Williams, director of operations with the Kentucky State Police . “The problem has become more difficult because a substantial number of Kentucky citizens are traveling to other states to purchase pills for purposes of abuse and trafficking. Law enforcement has shifted its focus in order to stem the flow of pills and to combat the high level of overdose deaths that we are experiencing in the commonwealth.”
The UK Substance Abuse Commonwealth Collaborative , through the efforts of its lead agency, UK’s HEEL program, brings together individuals and agencies from across Kentucky to combat substance abuse. UK President Lee T. Todd, Jr. created the Commonwealth Collaboratives so UK’s research resources could be used to target the state’s longstanding problems that hinder Kentucky’s economic and cultural progress.
“We built on the Commonwealth Collaborative started by President Todd and brought our unique focus of families and communities as the context in which it needed to be addressed,” Vail said.
“The Cooperative Extension Service is charting new territory in addressing the issue of prescription drug abuse and its effects on individuals, families and communities,” said Jeanne Davis, UK extension administrator. “Our role is one of education, and we have a network of dedicated county extension agents who can tap into the available resources at the university and collaborate with other agency partners to address grassroots issues such as prescription drug abuse.”
For years, HEEL has recognized and capitalized on the important leadership role extension agents have in their communities. Through the agents, the program has provided research-based information to Kentucky residents about how they can improve the health and well-being of their families, communities and themselves.
“HEEL serves as a bridge for local communities to the University of Kentucky’s expertise and resources,” said Deborah Murray, associate director of HEEL. “Building collaborations with communities and the university is the most important role we have in combating substance abuse issues.”
Since its inception, HEEL has established grassroots movements to combat the state’s substance abuse problems starting with Walk Your Land, a program that helps landowners recognize the signs of methamphetamine labs. Another program called Drug Endangered Children was a statewide collaboration that addressed the emerging needs of children found in homes with methamphetamine labs. It established a protocol for emergency room staff, law enforcement and social workers to deal with these children.
Roundtable participants said they enjoyed the opportunity to discuss such an important issue.
“This roundtable discussion was an invaluable law enforcement and educational tool,” said Ronnie Bastin, Lexington’s Chief of Police. “It provided the Division of Police with an opportunity to discuss the topic of prescription medication abuse with our community partners, elected officials and the esteemed Director of National Drug Control Policy, Gil Kerlikowske. I believe this open and frank discussion will assist us in our continuing efforts to make Lexington an even safer place to live”.
The collet chuck is the most common alternative to jaw chucks in CNC. It was originally developed to make it easier to machine smaller parts. Collet chucks are designed to work with capacities as large as 6 inches, although they most commonly hold workpiece diameters of 3 inches or less. CNC machinists love them because…
You can use a CNC router to cut just about anything you want – ranging from cabinetry to signs. But the hard part with CNC routers is choosing the right one for your needs. How do you know which one will work for you? Keep these general tips in mind which should form the foundation…
DALLAS, TX (July 2017) – MultiCam Inc., a U.S. based CNC machinery manufacturer is excited to announce IHT Oxy-Fuel torches can now be fully integrated onto the MultiCam 6000 Series CNC Plasma. The MultiCam 6000 Series features a bridge & rail design for large process heavy plate production. It combines a 0 to 45-degree beveled…
Have conventional machines in your CNC shop? Have you wondered what it might be like to replace them with CNC machines? Do you find yourself daydreaming about faster production speeds and higher revenues? What’s been holding you back from making the change? See if some of these advantages of CNC machining don’t finally convince you…

These twin challenges of lack of affordable housing and escalating medical costs have a deep impact on our nation’s health and well-being.
The rise in rents and mortgage costs in many parts of the country has outpaced incomes, skyrocketing the number of Americans who spend most of their income on housing and squeezing low-income people out of places they could once afford. And, though we’ve made strides in reducing homelessness, it remains an urgent problem nationwide.
The same people who face the toughest time finding an affordable place to live also encounter the most difficulty meeting their health-care needs. Nearly a quarter of people who live in poverty don’t have health insurance coverage, compared to fewer than one in 10 people who are not poor, according to the National Center for Health Statistics. And millions in the U.S.―and around the world―face toxic tradeoffs between medical care and basics like food and shelter.
These twin challenges have a deep impact on our nation’s health and well-being. To improve the well-being of all, the nation must address them together, rather than separately. There can be no good health without good housing―and so the housing and health-care sectors must partner closely to help ensure the most vulnerable have access to a stable, healthy foundation to succeed in life.
There’s a raft of research that shows that much of what determines our mental and physical health lies outside the health-care system. Housing conditions are one of the most concrete manifestations of those forces. Safe, clean, affordable and accessible housing is vital to physical and mental health and well-being, while subpar housing conditions can contribute to physical problems like asthma, obesity and infectious diseases, and mental health issues such as depression, stress and anxiety.
In fact, a 2016 study by the Center for Outcomes Research and Education and Enterprise Community Partners found that affordable housing paired with health-care services transformed the health-care experiences of Medicaid-covered residents―increasing use of primary care services, reducing emergency department visits and lowering health-care expenditures.
Better Homes & Gardens;Dec2011, Vol. 89 Issue 12, p183
The article presents several recommendations for women to relieve their stress during the holiday season. It cites the latest survey commissioned by the American Psychological Association as of December 2011, which showed that 44% of women experienced a significant increase in stress levels during the holiday season. Among the suggestions are drink hot cocoa while relaxing, send sincere greetings to people, and do a good deed everyday.
67412395
LOOK GREAT, FEEL FABULOUS. Wadyka, Sally // Health (Time Inc. Health);Dec2005, Vol. 19 Issue 10, p118
The article offers tips for women on managing stress during the holiday season. Women are encouraged to take smile therapy to relieve stress. They are also encouraged to use the Essencia Rosemary and Peppermint Aromatherapy Candle that said to boost energy. A self-hypnosis technique that can...
Work overload! Pre-freakout destress strategies. Kornreich, Jennifer // Cosmopolitan;Jul97, Vol. 223 Issue 1, p186
Presents tips for female employees on handling stressful work. How to prevent panic on late meetings; Most effective methods of reducing pressure; How to lighten up the work; How to minimize mental and physical stress. INSET: Instant fixes..
Higher exercise intensity, lower stress. K.D. // Shape;Dec2003, Vol. 23 Issue 4, p75
Presents information about how intense exercise can lower anxiety in women.
The steamy story of hot chocolate. Land, Leslie // Yankee;Feb99, Vol. 63 Issue 2, p52
Presents a brief history of hot chocolate drinking in Mexico City, Mexico during the sixteenth century. Aztec emperor Montezuma's fondness of hot chocolate; European encounter with chocolate; Difference in the preparation of hot chocolate and cocoa.
Hot Chocolate. Ravits, Sarah // New Orleans Homes & Lifestyles;Winter2014, Vol. 18 Issue 1, p104
The article discusses the role of hot chocolate in giving comfort in wintertime chills.
a warm winter treat. // Kiwi;Nov/Dec2009, p21
A photograph of a child drinking hot chocolate is presented, along with information on how to prepare a fair trade hot chocolate for kids during winter.
the Sin scale. // NW;6/17/2013, Vol. 21 Issue 25, p76
The article lists several food items including hot chocolate, piccolo latte and cappuccino.
Gather. // Rodale's Organic Life;Dec2016/Jan2017, Vol. 2 Issue 7, p15
The article focuses on cozy evening with candlelit, playing in the snow and Marshmallows toppings on hot cocoa in the winter season.
