Saha, Avijit - Department of EEE (UIU)
LecturerMobile : +8801729141745Email : avijit@eee.uiu.ac.bd
BSc in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, UIU, 2016
Higher Secondary School Certificate in Science, NDC, 2010
Secondary School Certificate in Science, AHS, 2008
Lecturer, Dept. of EEE, United International University 2nd October 2016 — till date
Instructor, Dept. of EEE, United International University
29th May 2016 — 30th September 2016
• Avijit Saha, Naznin Nahar Nipu, Md. Fayyaz Khan, "PSpice Based Study of Environmental Effect on the Performance of the Solar PV Module", 4th International Conference on the Developments in Renewable Energy Technology, 2016. Available in: IEEE Xplore Digital Library, DOI: 10.1109/ICDRET.2016.7421509.
• Naznin Nahar Nipu, Avijit Saha, Md. Fayyaz Khan, "Effect of Accumulated Dust on the Performance of Solar PV Module", International Journal of Engineering & Technology, Vol. 6 No. 1(2017), DOI: 10.14419/ijet.v6i1.6316
• Avijit Saha, Naznin Nahar Nipu, Md. Fayyaz Khan, "A PSpice Based Analysis in Estimating & Utilizing Excess Energy from Solar Home Systems during Dry Season in Bangladesh", International Conference on Advancement in Electrical and Electronic Engineering, 2018. Available in: IEEE Xplore Digital Library, DOI: 10.1109/ICAEEE.2018.8642987.
• Avijit Saha, Naznin Nahar Nipu, Md. Fayyaz Khan, "Effect of Partial Shading on the Performance of Solar PV Module and Impact of Bypass Diode in Performance Enhancement", 5th International Conference on Advances in Electrical Engineering, 2019. Available in: IEEE Xplore Digital Library, DOI: 10.1109/ICAEE48663.2019.8975669
• Md. Fayyaz Khan, Avijit Saha, Naznin Nahar Nipu, Md. Easin Ali Howlader, "A Comparative Study of Different Photovoltaic Simulation Software through Cost Analysis of a Standalone Solar Home System", International Journal of Innovative Research in Electrical, Electronics, Instrumentation and Control Engineering (IJIREEICE). (Accepted)
Medical Device News MagazineA Digital Publication for the Practicing Medical Specialist, Industry Executive, and Investor
HOME
ABOUT
PRESS RELEASES
EDITORIAL
ADVERTISE
CONTACT
BIOTECHNOLOGY NEWS MAGAZINE
MEDICAL DEVICES
OTHER INDUSTRY NEWS
CLINICAL TRIALS
EXECUTIVES
FDA
FUNDING
INDUSTRY EXPERT ARTICLES
MERGERS / ACQUISITIONS
HOSPITALS
IMAGING
ROBOTICS
MARKET OUTLOOK
ULTRASOUND
NON-PROFIT
HEALTHCARE CAREERS
HEALTH
ARTICLES OF INTEREST
SUBSCRIBE TO OUR NEWSLETTER
Search
Search
Trending Now
Luna Appoints Amber Mauro as Head of Therapist Acquisition and People Operations
Bone Health Technologies announces positive Topline Results from Groundbreaking Pivotal Trial of Non-pharmacological Treatment for Osteopenia
Defining Care Pathways in a Post-Stroke World – By David Z. Rose, M.D.
Lazurite™ and Hospital for Special Surgery Announce a Collaboration Agreement Focused on Lazurite’s ArthroFree™ Wireless Surgical Camera System
Cardiothoracic Surgeon to Lead Smidt Heart Institute’s ECMO Program
Search
HomeHOSPITALS
April 1, 2020
Datos Health COVID-19 Solution Employed at Rochester Regional Health
Share
Linkedin
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
WhatsApp
Telegram
Tumblr
ReddIt
Email
Copy URL
Print
Datos Health is a provider of an automated remote care platform, together with Rochester-based consulting firm Strategic Interests, LLC. Today it was announced the successful deployment of the Datos COVID-19 solution at Rochester Regional Health.
The partnership is enabling Rochester Regional Health to more efficiently and safely monitor patients and healthcare workers exposed to or suffering from coronavirus, outside of the hospital setting.
“Given the current trajectory of the pandemic in major metropolitan areas, as COVID-19 continues to spread, hospitals may experience a surge in visitors, resulting in many health systems like ours quickly becoming overwhelmed and adding further burden on an already overstretched medical system,” said Bridgette Wiefling, MD, Senior VP for the Primary Care and Ambulatory Specialty Institute at Rochester Regional Health. “At Rochester Regional, we strive to provide optimal care to the patients in our community, while investing in our team members who put their lives on the line every day. This tool enables us to deliver great quality care and bring comfort to those who are on the frontline in fighting this disease.”
The Datos Health solution is specifically designed to support hospitals across the world to alleviate the strain on healthcare systems by helping to keep suspected coronavirus patients and those who are infected but do not require hospitalization, at home while still providing them with optimal care.
Rochester Regional is using the Datos Remote Care platform to monitor three groups of people:
Staff at low risk of exposure, yet required to report their temperature twice daily for 14 days
Staff displaying symptoms and tested positive for COVID-19
Patients required to self-quarantine for 14 days due to displaying symptoms consistent with COVID-19 but having not met the testing criteria.
“Our remote care platform solution is helping healthcare systems like Rochester Regional to vastly improve communication between patients and care workers, providing reassurance during the challenging isolation period that they are still being cared for and will receive any further interventions if needed,” said Uri Bettesh, CEO of Datos Health. “For hospitals, this also provides the ability to safeguard employees, monitoring them for compliance and enabling them to return quickly to work once out of the isolation period.”
“This project is helping our client Rochester Regional Health to rapidly deploy critical and unique capabilities that can keep our community safe during these uncertain times, and we are honored to have played a supporting role in bringing together the dedicated clinicians and administrators at Rochester Regional with Datos’ dynamic team,” said Al Kinel, President, Strategic Interests. “It is remarkable that, in just a few short days, they were able to implement an innovative and efficient solution to preserve the dedicated medical staff and ensure the well-being of non-hospitalized patients.”
Medical Device News Magazine
Editorial Contact: mdnewsmagazine@infomeddnews.com
LinkedIn
Twitter
Facebook
Pinterest
Medical Device News Magazine can help promote your medical devices, technologies, products or services. Advertising Contact: advmdn@infomeddnews.com
The UK has some of the highest rates of asthma in Europe, with around 5.4 million Brits suffering from the disease, according to Asthma UK.
Oral hygiene is also an issue in the UK, as leading dental charity, the British Dental Health Foundation, suggests that less than 50 per cent of British adults have an “acceptable oral hygiene routine.” The findings of the Adult Dental Health Survey show that many people fail to carry out even the most basic hygiene practices every day and research is consistently linking poor oral health to an increased risk of general health conditions, including diabetes, strokes and heart disease.
Dr Nigel Carter OBE, chief executive of the BDHF, said that the study suggests a “significant” link between asthma and gum disease and added that people should be aware of the importance of good oral hygiene and regular dental appointments.
WILL BE HELD DURING 02nd Aug 2021	 AT Ernakulam,India
National Conference on Recent Advances in Science, Engineering, Technology and Management(NCRASETM) will be held on 02nd Aug 2021 at Ernakulam,India. NCRASETM is to bring together innovative academics and industrial experts in the field of Business Management and Social Innovation to a common forum. All the registered papers will be published by the World Research Library and will be submitted for review for indexing by Google Scholar etc.
First PhD Graduate Press Release — Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine – News Center at Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine at Tufts University
First PhD Graduate Press Release — Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine
First PhD Graduate First PhD to Graduate from Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine Student focused research on rabbit fever on Martha's Vineyard North ...
Student focused research on rabbit fever on Martha's Vineyard
North Grafton, MA, May 13, 2008
The Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine at Tufts University will confer its first Doctorate of Philosophy in Comparative Biomedical Sciences to a student whose work may one day prove vital to understanding why Martha's Vineyard has played host to an outbreak of tularemia since 2000. Zenda L. Berrada will graduate alongside 78 new doctors of veterinary medicine and 14 students from the Cummings School's Master of Science in Animals and Public Policy program on Sunday.
When Berrada first began researching tularemia, also known as rabbit fever, she had no idea that it was the very same disease that killed her great-great-grandmother. But, as her work progressed, a conversation with her grandmother revealed that her ancestor died from the disease—after dressing an infected rabbit.
Berrada first worked with tularemia at Colorado State University, where she studied microbiology and worked in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's Division of Vector-Borne Infectious Diseases, studying the differences between Type-A tularemia, the virulent strain that has caused 68 cases of the disease on Martha's Vineyard since 2000, and Type-B, which is found elsewhere in the United States, especially in Arkansas, Kansas, and Oklahoma. After more than 5 years at the CDC laboratory, she joined the Massachusetts Department of Public Health to assist with West Nile Virus surveillance, then later with the DPH's Bioterrorism Response Laboratory.
Zenda's work in infectious diseases is a prime example of the Cummings School's commitment to better understanding zoonotic diseases—ones that can be spread from animals to humans, said Deborah T. Kochevar, PhD, DVM, dean of the Cummings School of Veterinary Medicine at Tufts University. Her work—and that of all of our Division of Infectious Diseases staff—is dedicated to keeping animals and humans safer, and I applaud Dr. Telford for his mentorship of our first PhD candidate.
The Gift of Health Testimonials - Waken My Soul The Gift of Health Testimonials
You are here: Home / Raising Your Vibration / The Gift of Health Testimonials
Listen to the diverse experiences these people have had using The Gift of Health
First meet Allison:
Allison is a highly intuitive and gifted Energy Healer and Teacher with almost 3 decades experience across various energy healing modalities. She is the founder and creator of The Gift of Health.
Allison's understanding is that all forms of natural healing are working with Life Force, and the more we can feel our connection with this Force, the deeper our work will become. With a call to follow her own heart and focus on feeling rather than knowing, Allison developed The Gift of Health.
Meet Sue – a Physiotherapist
Sue is a highly respected Physiotherapist with a interest in energy work. She has realised that it is not enough to just work with the physical body and has been successfully integrating The Gift of Health practice into her physio work with amazing results.
Meet Christian – a Yoga Teacher & Healer
Christian found The Gift of Health practice incredibly easy to learn and uses it regularly as a self-healing practice as well as to create meditation groups to teach others to heal themselves.
Meet Kate – an Energy Healer & mother
Kate has used The Gift of Health to successfully control her PCOS and is now an Energy Healer, using the practice to work with clients across the globe. Even her children use The Gift of Health – watch to see her son Cole speak about his experience using The Gift of Health.
Meet Kim – a Nurse
Kim uses The Gift of Health to keep herself healthy, both physically, mentally and emotionally within an incredibly demanding role. She experiences such beautiful tranquility and peace with the practice.
Meet Fiona – a Mother
Fiona had experienced extreme fertility problems that were completely overcome through use of The Gift of Health. She found a lot of peace and comfort in the healing energy.
Meet Jan – a Teacher
Jan has used The Gift of Health daily during the Covid Pandemic to bring peace, calm and re-balancing energy into a life filled with constant change. She found a new way of living and coping independently. She was nervous about learning online but found The Gift of Health to be a life changing experience. Health is the New Wealth!
Meet Sandy – a Teacher & mother
Sandy and her family have been experiencing The Gift of Health for years. They have found great healing, peace and comfort for many different things, including post-cancer treatment, emotional burnout, chronic pain and re-balancing the energetic system. Sandy also uses The Gift of health for distance healing for her beloved pets, with great results.
FEA software meets virtual testing requirements | The Engineer The Engineer
FEA software meets virtual testing requirements
By Dassault Systèmes on 1st July 2010 15th December 2015
Dassault Systemes (DS) has announced that Research and Development Establishment (Engineers) has selected Abaqus finite element analysis (FEA) software from Simulia to meet its virtual testing needs.
Research and Development Establishment (Engineers) is an engineering group working with metal and composite materials to drive innovation in structural and mechanical systems through research, collaboration and the use of modern technology.
Composite materials are increasingly utilised by many industries thanks to their strong yet lightweight properties and the ability of their structural response to be tailored as needed.
The group has selected Abaqus FEA software for its robust linear and nonlinear structural analysis capabilities, as well as advanced composites modelling and simulation features.
Abaqus is being used for performing static and dynamic load case simulations of impact penetration, vehicle dynamics and geotechnical interactions.
These are essential in determining the right composites material to be used in applications such as bridges, military vehicles, sonar domes and ship superstructure.
U R Gautam, group director of the Integrated Management Systems Group at Research and Development Establishment (Engineers), said: 'The bridges and vehicles developed at Research and Development Establishment (Engineers) need to withstand very harsh environments.
'Abaqus FEA provides accurate, realistic simulation capabilities for designing safe, reliable products,' he added.
An offshoot of the engineering group's research includes the development of prosthetic hip implants to meet the needs of individuals with a particular focus on the physiology of the Indian population.
Kiran Akella, scientist at Research and Development Establishment (Engineers), said: 'We are also using Abaqus FEA to study the loads on the human bone before and after the implant to ensure reduced stress on the bone structure.
ASSISTED REPAIR (1)
BONE-MARROW INFILTRATION (1)
CLINICAL STAGING SYSTEM (1)
ELBOW POSITION (1)
MYELOMA WORKING GROUP (1)
Specific CT 3D rendering of the treatment zone after Irreversible Electroporation (IRE) in a pig liver model: the "Chebyshev Center Concept" to define the maximum treatable tumor size
Vollherbst D ; Fritz S ; Zelzer S ; [et al.] Wachter MF ; Wolf MB ; Stampfl U ; Gnutzmann D ; Bellemann N ; Schmitz A ; Knapp J ; Pereira PL ; Kauczor HU ; Werner J ; Radeleff BA ; Sommer CM
BMC Medical Imaging 14 (), Art. Nr.: 2-
Keywords: RADIOFREQUENCY ABLATION ; TISSUE ABLATION
Abstract: BACKGROUND: Size and shape of the treatment zone after Irreversible electroporation (IRE) can be difficult to depict due to the use of multiple applicators with complex spatial configuration. Exact geometrical definition of the treatment zone, however, is mandatory for acute treatment control since incomplete tumor coverage results in limited oncological outcome. In this study, the "Chebyshev Center Concept" was introduced for CT 3d rendering to assess size and position of the maximum treatable tumor at a specific safety margin. METHODS: In seven pig livers, three different IRE protocols were applied to create treatment zones of different size and shape: Protocol 1 (n = 5 IREs), Protocol 2 (n = 5 IREs), and Protocol 3 (n = 5 IREs). Contrast-enhanced CT was used to assess the treatment zones. Technique A consisted of a semi-automated software prototype for CT 3d rendering with the "Chebyshev Center Concept" implemented (the "Chebyshev Center" is the center of the largest inscribed sphere within the treatment zone) with automated definition of parameters for size, shape and position. Technique B consisted of standard CT 3d analysis with manual definition of the same parameters but position. RESULTS: For Protocol 1 and 2, short diameter of the treatment zone and diameter of the largest inscribed sphere within the treatment zone were not significantly different between Technique A and B. For Protocol 3, short diameter of the treatment zone and diameter of the largest inscribed sphere within the treatment zone were significantly smaller for Technique A compared with Technique B (41.1 +/- 13.1 mm versus 53.8 +/- 1.1 mm and 39.0 +/- 8.4 mm versus 53.8 +/- 1.1 mm; p 〈 0.05 and p 〈 0.01). For Protocol 1, 2 and 3, sphericity of the treatment zone was significantly larger for Technique A compared with B. CONCLUSIONS: Regarding size and shape of the treatment zone after IRE, CT 3d rendering with the "Chebyshev Center Concept" implemented provides significantly different results compared with standard CT 3d analysis. Since the latter overestimates the size of the treatment zone, the "Chebyshev Center Concept" could be used for a more objective acute treatment control.
DOI: 10.1186/1471-2342-14-2
PubMed ID: 24410997
Deep Link: http://www.dkfz.de/cgi-bin/sel?http://www.dkfz.de/PublicationManager/Show/ShowJournal.aspx%3fpublishedId=48654
Wolf MB ; Murray F ; Kilk K ; [et al.] Hillengass J ; Delorme S ; Heiss C ; Neben K ; Goldschmidt H ; Kauczor HU ; Weber MA
European Journal of Radiology 83 (7), 1222-1230
Keywords: SURVIVAL ; DIAGNOSIS ; tomography ; MULTIPLE-MYELOMA ; ENHANCEMENT ; CLINICAL STAGING SYSTEM ; BONE-MARROW INFILTRATION ; MYELOMA WORKING GROUP ; CONVENTIONAL RADIOGRAPHY
Abstract: PURPOSE: To compare sensitivity of whole-body Computed Tomography (wb-CT) and whole-body Magnetic Resonance Imaging (wb-MRI) with Projection Radiography (PR) regarding each method's ability to detect osteolyses in patients with monoclonal plasma cell disease. PATIENTS AND METHODS: The bone status of 171 patients was evaluated. All patients presented with multiple myeloma (MM) of all stages, monoclonal gammopathy of unknown significance (MGUS) or solitary plasmacytoma. Two groups were formed. Group A consisted of 52 patients (26 females, 26 males) with an average age of 62 years (range, 45-89 years) who received, both, PR and wb-CT as part of their diagnostic work-up. Group B comprised 119 patients (58 females, 61 males) averaging 57 years of age (range, 20-80 years) who received, both, PR and wb-MRI. Two experienced radiologists were blinded regarding the disease status and assessed the number and location of osteolyses in consensus. A distinction was made between axial and extra-axial lesions. RESULTS: In group A, wb-CT revealed osteolyses in 12 patients (23%) that were not detected in PR. CT was superior in detecting lesions in patients with osteopenia and osteoporosis. Compared with PR, wb-CT was significantly more sensitive in detecting osteolyses than PR (p〈0.001). This was particularly true for axial lesions. Additionally, CT revealed clinically relevant incidental findings in 33 patients (63%). In group B, wb-MRI revealed lesions in 19 patients (16%) that were not detected in PR. All lesions detected by PR were also detected by wb-MRI and wb-CT. Wb-MRI and wb-CT are each superior to PR in detecting axial lesions. CONCLUSION: Wb-CT can detect 23% more focal lesions than PR, especially in the axial skeleton. Therefore, this imaging method should be preferred over PR in the diagnostic work-up and staging of patients with monoclonal plasma cell disease.
DOI: 10.1016/j.ejard.2014.02.008
PubMed ID: 24793843
Deep Link: http://www.dkfz.de/cgi-bin/sel?http://www.dkfz.de/PublicationManager/Show/ShowJournal.aspx%3fpublishedId=51964
Medical Liability and Patient Law in Germany: Main Features with Particular Focus on Treatments in the Field of Interventional Radiology
Sommer SA ; Geissler R ; Stampfl U ; [et al.] Wolf MB ; Radeleff BA ; Richter GM ; Kauczor HU ; Pereira PL ; Sommer CM
Rofo - Fortschritte Auf dem Gebiet der Roentgenstrahlen und der Bildgebenden Verfahren 188 (4), 353-358
Abstract: On February 26th, 2013 the patient law became effective in Germany. Goal of the lawmakers was a most authoritative case law for liability of malpractice and to improve enforcement of the rights of the patients. The following article contains several examples detailing legal situation. By no means should these discourage those persons who treat patients. Rather should they be sensitized to to various aspects of this increasingly important field of law. To identify relevant sources according to judicial standard research was conducted including first- and second selection. Goal was the identification of jurisdiction, literature and other various analyses that all deal with liability of malpractice and patient law within the field of Interventional Radiology - with particular focus on transarterial chemoembolization of the liver and related procedures. In summary, 89 different sources were included and analyzed. The individual who treats a patient is liable for an error in treatment if it causes injury to life, the body or the patient's health. Independent of the error in treatment the individual providing medical care is liable for mistakes made in the context of obtaining informed consent. Prerequisite is the presence of an error made when obtaining informed consent and its causality for the patient's consent for the treatment. Without an effective consent the treatment is considered illegal whether it was free of treatment error or not. The new patient law does not cause material change of the German liablity of malpractice law. Key points: * On February 26th, 2013 the new patient law came into effect. Materially, there was no fundamental remodeling of the German liability for medical malpractice.* Regarding a physician's liability for medical malpractice two different elements of an offence come into consideration: for one the liability for malpractice and, in turn, liability for errors made during medical consultation in the process of obtaining informed consent.* Forensic practice shows that patients frequently enforce both offences concurrently. Citation Format: * Sommer SA, Geissler R, Stampfl U et al. Medical Liability and Patient Law in Germany: Main Features with Particular Focus on Treatments in the Field of Interventional Radiology. Fortschr Rontgenstr 2016; 188: 353 - 358.
PubMed ID: 26716403
Deep Link: http://www.dkfz.de/cgi-bin/sel?http://www.dkfz.de/PublicationManager/Show/ShowJournal.aspx%3fpublishedId=69807
Klum M ; Wolf MB ; Hahn P ; [et al.] Leclere FM ; Bruckner T ; Unglaub F
Archives of Orthopaedic and Trauma Surgery 132 (12), 1807-1811
Keywords: POPULATION ; AGE ; RELIABILITY ; HEAD ; ADULTS ; HEALTHY-SUBJECTS ; NORMATIVE VALUES ; ELBOW POSITION ; HAND ; DYNAMOMETER
Abstract: PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to examine the influence of anthropometric data, occupational manual strain, DASH (disability of arm, shoulder and hand) score and range of motion (ROM) on grip strength and key pinch. An additional goal was to develop models that enable the prediction of hand strength using the aforementioned parameters. METHODS: Normative data generated from a healthy working population (n = 750) served as basis for the statistical analysis. Prediction models for hand strength were developed using multivariate regression analysis. RESULTS: Gender, body weight and height, BMI and extension ROM correlate positively, age and DASH score, however, correlate negatively with grip strength and key pinch. Occupational manual strain has no influence on hand strength. The predictive power of the developed models was 68.4 % for grip strength and 57.1 % for key pinch. CONCLUSIONS: The developed models enable the prediction of hand strength using easily obtainable data points. The models will have application in clinical practice, physiological studies, medical evidence and rehab decisions.
DOI: 10.1007/s00402-012-1602-8
PubMed ID: 22983146
Deep Link: http://www.dkfz.de/cgi-bin/sel?http://www.dkfz.de/PublicationManager/Show/ShowJournal.aspx%3fpublishedId=37390
Arthroscopic Repair of Ulnar-Sided Triangular Fibrocartilage Complex (Palmer Type 1B) Tears: A Comparison Between Short- and Midterm Results
Wolf MB ; Haas A ; Dragu A ; [et al.] Leclere FM ; Dreyhaupt J ; Hahn P ; Unglaub F
Journal of Hand Surgery 37 (11), 2325-2330
Keywords: MANAGEMENT ; WRIST ARTHROSCOPY ; OSTEOTOMY
Abstract: PURPOSE: To compare short- and midterm functional and subjective outcomes of arthroscopically repaired Palmer 1B tears. METHODS: At 2 time points, we evaluated 49 patients with Palmer 1B tears who underwent arthroscopic repair. We examined 46 patients (23 males and 23 females) in the short-term at an average of 11 months (range, 6-23 mo) postoperatively. In a second midterm follow-up, we examined 40 patients (20 males and 20 females) an average of 4.8 years (range, 4.2-5.9 y) after repair. Between short- and midterm follow-ups, 6 patients underwent an ulnar-shortening osteotomy to alleviate persistent ulnar-sided symptoms. Objective and subjective evaluation included the determination of range of motion, grip strength, pain, and wrist scores (modified Mayo wrist score and Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder, and Hand score). RESULTS: Compared with short-term repair results, midterm outcomes showed a further improvement in pain, wrist scores, grip strength, and motion. Neither static nor dynamic ulnar variance was correlated to preoperative and postoperative Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand scores, short-term modified Mayo wrist scores, or need for ulnar-shortening osteotomy. Five patients improved only after having received an ulnar shortening osteotomy. CONCLUSIONS: After repair of Palmer 1B lesions, patients continued to improve in function and comfort at least into the second year, although some needed to have the ulna shortened to achieve this result. TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic IV.
DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2012.08.027
PubMed ID: 23101530
Deep Link: http://www.dkfz.de/cgi-bin/sel?http://www.dkfz.de/PublicationManager/Show/ShowJournal.aspx%3fpublishedId=36911
A Hair Transplant Surgeon with responsibilities that require a delicate balance of science and art, and being hair transplant surgeons possess a unique skill set that makes it possible to address issues associated with thinning hair or the various stages of hair loss. Through the use of any number of hair restoration techniques and procedures, these skilled doctors can create a natural-looking hairline and restore a great deal of thickness and volume to a patient suffering from hair loss or thinning hair. Hair transplant surgeons are trained to perform a wide range of procedures that include both surgical and non-surgical options, and patients can expect their doctor to be involved throughout the entirety of the process, from the initial evaluation to the post-operative follow-up.
Looking for a Hair Transplant Surgeon?
During the initial consultation at a hair transplant clinic in New York, Greenwich, Connecticut: Chicago, Illinois; Washington D.C. and Northern Virginia; Houston, Dallas, Texas; Manila, Philippines; Dubai, Abu Dhabi,U.A.E.; and Karachi, Pakistan, doctors will review the patient’s hair restoration goals and will explain the different procedures that are available along with a recommendation regarding which ones are most ideal based on a number of factors unique to the individual patient. At this point the doctor may recommend a Follicular Unit Extraction (FUE), a Follicular Unit Transplant (FUT), or one of the many other available surgical and non-surgical options, all of which yield exceptional results for patients seeking the restoration of thick head of hair along with a natural-looking and artfully crafted hairline.
It is at this point that the doctor and patient will agree upon a specific course of action and schedule a date for the procedure, and the doctor can be expected to furnish detailed instructions regarding how to properly prepare for the day of the procedure to ensure that best possible outcome is achieved. This will include an overview of what the patient can and cannot do in the days leading up to the procedure as well as on the actual day of the procedure.
Hair Transplant Surgeon
The doctor’s responsibilities on the day of the procedure will vary considerably based on the extent of the hair loss or thinning hair being addressed as well as the specific surgical or non-surgical option selected by the patient. Generally speaking, however, the doctor will work in concert with a team of nurses, medical assistants, and surgical assistants on the day of the procedure. The doctor will be responsible for designing the hair line that is acceptable to the client. He/she is also responsible for administering anesthesia and ensuring minimal discomfort and pain to the client. He/she then performs and oversees the harvesting and extracting grafts from the donor site and preparing them for insertion into the recipient site.
Overall, the hair transplant surgeon is responsible for the procedure from start to finish including oversight of the team.
What are a hair transplant surgeon’s credentials?
Hair transplant surgeons at MAXIM Hair Restoration are board certified surgeons and typically hold a specialization in plastic surgery, but it is not uncommon for hair transplant doctors to posses areas of specialization that include dermatology, cosmetic surgery, and general surgery. The doctors in New York, Greenwich, Connecticut: Chicago, Illinois; Washington D.C. and Norther Virginia; Houston, Dallas, Texas; Manila, Philippines; Dubai, Abu Dhabi, U.A.E.; and Karachi, Pakistan, all possess extensive experience performing a wide range of hair transplant procedures and were trained and educated at some of the most prestigious institutions worldwide. In fact, many of MAXIM’s hair transplant surgeons are performing research on new methodologies that show a great deal of promise for the future, and several of MAXIM’s doctors have shared their findings in medical journals and other industry publications.
In addition to board certification in plastic surgery or other related areas of specialization, a hair transplant surgeon should also possess an extensive track record of successful hair transplant procedures clearly demonstrating the doctor’s ability to perform natural-looking hair restoration procedures. After learning more about a doctor’s exceptional academic credentials, professional certifications, and prior examples of the positive outcomes generated through a hair restoration procedure, a patient should feel a strong sense of confidence in their doctor. With all of this information at their disposal, patients can make a full assessment of a doctor’s ability to balance the art and science of a hair transplant.
Is a plastic surgeon better at hair transplants?
Many of the doctors at MAXiM Hair Restoration who perform hair transplant procedures are indeed plastic surgeons, but there is also quite a large percentage of highly qualified doctors who possess board certification in cosmetic surgery, general surgery, and dermatology, along with a number of other areas of specialization outside of plastic surgery. Patients considering a hair transplant procedure should be aware that there are quite a few factors to take into account when choosing the ideal hair transplant doctor, and a doctor’s background in plastic surgery is just one piece of information worthy of inclusion in this critical decision-making process.
After reviewing a doctor’s qualifications and medical credentials, patients should consider the extent of a doctor’s previous experience in performing surgical hair transplant procedures. It is especially critical that the doctor specializes in hair transplant procedures and is able to offer access to the most advanced practices and technologies available. This should include surgical options — such as FUE and FUT — as well as non-surgical options, including scalp micropigmentation.
Meet your Hair Transplant Surgeon
Meeting the doctor and his or her staff during an initial consultation at a hair transplant clinic in New York, Greenwich,Connecticut: Chicago, Illinois; Washington D.C. and Norther Virginia; Houston, Dallas, Texas; Manila, Philippines; Dubai, Abu Dhabi,U.A.E.; and Karachi, Pakistan, is perhaps the best strategy for determining the most ideal doctor. During the course of this complimentary initial meeting, a patient can gain a great deal of insight into the quality of previous patient outcomes and will begin to develop a general understanding of the kind of care the doctor and his or her staff will be able to provide during the treatment process.
So even though many hair transplant doctors at MAXIM Hair Restoration are trained and board certified as plastic surgeons, there are countless other factors a patient must consider when selecting the best hair restoration doctor. A comprehensive review of the doctor’s qualifications, experience, level of specialization, access to advanced technologies and procedures, and the quality of previous patient’s results will go a long way toward selecting the best hair transplant doctor available.
Effectiveness of cognitive-behavioral group therapy training and nutritional strategies based on traditional medicine on Premenstrual Syndrome - Mashhad University of Medical Sciences Repository
Sepehrirad, Mina and Toozandehjani, Hasan (2015) Effectiveness of cognitive-behavioral group therapy training and nutritional strategies based on traditional medicine on Premenstrual Syndrome. The Iranian Journal of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Infertility, 18 (177). pp. 11-19.
IJOGI_Volume 18_Issue 177_Pages 11-19.pdf
Official URL: http://ijogi.mums.ac.ir/article_6453.html
Introduction: Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is one of the most common psychosomatic disorders in women which have many effects on women's quality of life and leads to decreased job performance and increased absence from workplace in working women .Its etiology is unknown and therapeutic techniques have been relatively effective. Since so far, no combination study has been done by two approaches of nutrition and psychology, so, this study was performed with to evaluate the effectiveness of integrated therapy approach based on clinical psychology and traditional medicine and considering the body and mind on the symptoms of premenstrual syndrome. Methods:This clinical trial study was performed on 45 women working in Mashhad Broadcasting Centre from September 2014 to October 2015. 45 patients with PMS were randomly into three groups of 15 cases in each group including receiving cognitive-behavioral therapy, receiving cognitive-behavioral therapy along with diet, and control. Tools for data collecting in this study were premenstrual symptoms screening tool (PSST) and Beck Depression Inventory (BDI). Data was analyzed using SPSS software (version 21), and one way ANOVA with repeated measurements, Kolmogrov-Smironov test and Friedman nonparametric test. PResults:In the experimental group, total score of premenstrual syndrome (P<0/01) and score of depression (P=0.000), and physical symptoms (P=0.015) were significantly decreased compared to control group after the test. Conclusion: The cognitive-behavioral group therapy along with traditional medicine is more effective on reduced symptoms of depression and physical symptoms compared with cognitive-behavioral therapy alone.
