Cofactor Genomics uses RNA to help researchers and clinicians understand, diagnose, and predict drug response for the 95% of disease that can't be assessed by DNA alone.
The structure of FeMo cofactor and the product when it reacted with nitrogen are developed and is shown in Fig.
In order for these reactions to occur suitably, the enzymes and cofactors that regulate their flow must be present in the proper balance.
The possible exceptions, histidinal and histinidol, may have resulted from components of a vestigial cofactor pathway.
Other chapter topics are structure and function of [NiFe]-hydrogenases, carbon monoxide and cyanide ligands in the active site of [FeFe]-hydrogenases, the dual role of heme as cofactor and substrate in the biosynthesis of carbon monoxide, copper-carbon bonds in mechanistic and structural probing of proteins, and computational studies of bioorganometallic enzymes and cofactors.
Collectively, our results establish the diet-dependent influence of Pparg2 Pro12Ala variant on metabolic control via modulated cofactor interaction and changes in gene expression patterns in mice," concluded the researchers.
The biotechnology company's cancer-drug candidate CoFactor failed to meet its goal in a midstage study.
Synta Pharmaceuticals Corp. (Nasdaq) led advancing issues, soaring $4.41, or 67% on the week, to $11.01
today announced the initiation of a Phase II clinical trial using CoFactor in the treatment of refractory metastatic breast cancer.
Self-Monitoring of Blood Glucose (SMBG) | South Africa
By self-monitoring your blood glucose you can measure how your body handles different types of food, exercise, medication, stress and illness. Your blood glucose result may prompt you to eat a snack, take more insulin or go for a walk. Self-monitoring can also alert you to a blood glucose level that is too high or too low, which requires special treatment. Self-monitoring is also known as Structured Testing which means testing at the right times, in the right situations, and frequently enough to generate useful information.
The results of self-monitoring can help guide you and your healthcare team to adjust the many parts of your therapy. Always consult with your Healthcare Professional to agree on a Structured Testing plan for you!
A smart way to test your blood sugar is as easy as connecting the dots!
The Accu-Chek® 360° View 3-day profile tool is an easy-to-use tool that helps you and your doctor see how well your blood sugar is under control. You can see the effect of your meals on your blood sugar, and how well your diabetes therapy is working.1
The easy-before-and-after tool to help you discover that what you do affects your blood glucose.
Guidelines supporting structured testing
•IDF Guideline on self-monitoring of blood glucose in non-insulin treated type 2 diabetes: http://www.idf.org/guidelines/self-monitoring
•The 2012 SEMDSA Guideline for the Management of Type 2 Diabetes: http://www.semdsa.org.za/images/2012_SEMDSA_Guideline_July_FINAL.pdf
•Standards of Medical Care in Diabetes – 2016: https://care.diabetesjournals.org/content/suppl/2015/12/21/39.Supplement_1.DC2/2016-Standards-of-Care.pdf
Always remember when testing to follow these basic steps2:
Follow the instructions included with your lancing device to get a drop of blood— which normally include shaking your hands below the wrist or gently squeezing your finger a few times to help
Wait a few seconds to view your results
Dispose of the lancet and test strip in the proper manner
Polansky WH, et al. Structured Self-Monitoring of Blood Glucose Significantly Reduces A1C levels in Poorly Controlled, Noninsulin-Treated Type 2 Diabetes. Results from the STeP Study. Diabetes Care Volume 34(2). February 2011; p262-267.
Joslin Diabetes Center. Blood glucose monitoring: your tool for diabetes control. Available at: http://www.joslin.org/info/monitoring_your_blood_glucose.html. Accessed October 16, 2008.
We are pleased to announce that Soft Flow Hungary Ltd. recently bought a microscope system suitable for HCA (High Content Analysis) studies. Currently (to our knowledge) in addition to our Olympus scan^R platform, there are only two (closed system) HCS units operating in the country.
HCS combines the instruments and methods of molecular and cell biology with automated, high- resolution, light and/or fluorescence microscopy. By the application of this method, a series of pictures can be taken of a great number of cells and organelles, similarly to large statistical populations in the case of flow cytometry. By using diverse quantitative morphological/morphometric methods on the recorded images, and/or by the multiple analysis of the fluorescence images, we are able to create Flow Cytometry Standard (FCS) data files, which are commonly used in flow cytometry, and can be assessed by similar methods as results obtained by flow cytometers. An important component of the method is the image analysis software, which produces digitized data files of the images. The data can be evaluated, analyzed by most flow cytometry analysis software (e.g. our own CellCap software). The outstanding advantage of the HCA method over flow cytometry is that each individual measuring point can be traced back to the examined cell/organelles, from which the data originated.
HSC measurements are typically carried out on cell culture plates, on fixed samples, but the device is suitable for the examination of slides as well. It has an extremely wide range of applications, (e.g. morphology, surface marker analysis, co-localization, cell cycle analysis, internalization, translocation, apoptosis, etc.).
We believe that the use of HCS offers good publishing opportunities in the field of immunology research (as well)!
We are looking for partner universities, research institutes to work together in two areas of HCA application:
The services we provide: we measure and evaluate samples of your experiments that you send to us in cell culture dishes/carriers or on slides. We gladly collaborate in designing the experiments.
Co-operation in assay development: we are seeking partners for the development of procedures applicable in pharmaceutical research and drug development and for practical applications. We share the revenues obtained from applications.
Physical Therapy Scholarships for P.T. Majors
Physical therapists provide a valuable service by helping people who are suffering from illnesses and injuries to overcome their limitations and live a better quality of life. Becoming a physical therapist takes a major investment of time and money, but is well worthwhile. If you are interesting in pursuing physical therapy as a career, these physical therapy scholarships can help cover the costs of your education so you can focus more on learning and less on finance. Here are some of the great physical therapy scholarships that are available to you:
University of Wisconsin-Madison Department of Orthopedics and Rehabilitation
The University of Wisconsin offers numerous physical therapy scholarships that can help students pay for the cost of earning their degrees. Here are some of the offerings:
Margaret A. Kohli Scholarship – This fund is in honor of the retired Director of the University of Wisconsin-Madison Physical Therapy Program. Each year, the program provides financial help to a second-year physical therapy student who has shown excellent leadership potential and academic achievement.
Jean L. Roland Memorial Scholarship – This fund is in honor of Jean L. Roland's outstanding career as a physical therapist and her service to children with disabilities. Scholarships are provided to students for the second year of graduate physical therapy study.
Barbara Ellen Gerlich-Hoefeyzer Scholarships – This fund is used to provide student scholarships, programs, services, and fellowships in physical therapy.
Amelia Doyon Scholarship – This scholarship fund is awarded to a first-year female student in physical therapy to pay for the second year of study. Candidates are chosen based on financial need and academic standing.
Caroline, Clara, and Charles Mildred Harper Scholarships – These scholarships are provided to two first-year physical therapy students based on academic standing and financial need.
Ridley Family Physical Therapy Scholarships – This fund is made available in gratitude for the care Ted Ridley received from University of Wisconsin physical therapists after brain surgery. The fund provides one or more scholarships to enrolled or accepted physical therapy students each year.
To apply for these scholarships and to get information on deadlines and other requirements, visit the official website at ortho.wisc.edu.
The American Physical Therapy Association provides numerous physical therapy scholarships for students who are looking for financial assistance in paying for a degree. One of these, the CSM Scholarship for Physical Therapy Students, is provided in conjunction with Kaiser Permanente. This scholarship covers conference registration and provides $500 for lodging, travel, and meals. To be eligible, students must be members of APTA and must be second or third year physical therapy students when applying. Applicants must also be pursuing a career in neurologic, orthopedic, geriatric, or sports physical therapy. The APTA also provides the Mary McMillan Scholarship award. These physical therapy scholarships are given through nominations from physical therapy and physical therapist assistant education programs. Student nominees must be enrolled in the final year of an assistant program or a part-time physical therapy program. Students in a physical therapist professional education program must be within one year of completing all requirements to graduate from the entry-level program. Scholarships are awarded based on past productivity, scholastic achievement, evidence of potential contributions to the field of physical therapy, and service to the APTA. Recipients will receive $3,000 for a physical therapist assistant program and $5,000 for a physical therapist professional education program. For further information, visit www.apta.org.
Physical therapy is a rapidly growing career field that provides candidates with an excellent salary, great employment benefits, and tremendous job security. If you are interested in entering a physical therapy career, these scholarships can take a bite out of the large monetary investment required for your education.
About the department (22) Apply About the department filter
Emergency health management (50) Apply Emergency health management filter
Health technology (8) Apply Health technology filter
Immunisation (40) Apply Immunisation filter
Obesity and overweight (13) Apply Obesity and overweight filter
General public (142) Apply General public filter
Health sector (64) Apply Health sector filter
QI Program information sheets
This collection of information sheets are for government-subsidised residential aged care providers. The information sheets cover the definitions for each quality indicator and describes how the QI Program is relevant to them.
This collection contains summaries from consultation workshops we held with stakeholders to help develop the National Preventive Health Strategy.
National Preventive Health Strategy Expert Steering Committee resources
This collection contains communiques from the Expert Steering Committee meetings.
COVID-19 vaccination – Important COVID-19 vaccine information – Radio recordings in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages
A collection of translations of the radio recording, 'Important COVID-19 vaccine information', in Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander languages. These recordings discuss important information about the vaccines, including how vaccines work, how they're approved, and the importance of two doses.
COVID-19 vaccination – COVID-19 vaccine information for in-home and community aged care recipients and workers
A collection of fact sheets about COVID-19 vaccines for workers and recipients of in-home and community aged care.
This collection lists documents that summarise recommendations that the Stoma Product Assessment Panel's made after assessing products for the Stoma Appliance Scheme Schedule in April 2021.
COVID-19 vaccination – COVID-19 Vaccine Provider Communication Kit for general practices
This collection contains a range of resources to help general practices communicate to their patients about the COVID-19 vaccination program.
These resources provide information about getting vaccinated against influenza in 2021.
Get Up & Grow – Traditional Chinese resource collection
This collection contains Get Up & Grow resources, in traditional Chinese, that help parents and educators make sure children eat healthy foods and are physically active, so they grow up healthy and strong.
Get Up & Grow – Healthy eating and physical activity for early childhood – Resource collection
This collection contains Get Up & Grow resources that help parents and educators make sure children eat healthy foods and are physically active, so they grow up healthy and strong.
AskMBS Advisories
This collection of AskMBS advisories are to help health professionals, practice managers and others to understand and comply with MBS billing requirements.
CD30 Expression Reveals that Culture Adaptation of Human Embryonic Stem Cells Can Occur Through Differing Routes - White Rose Research Online
Human embryonic stem cells undergo adaptive changes that can increase their growth capacity upon prolonged culture in vitro. This is frequently associated with nonrandom karyotypic changes, commonly involving amplification of genetic material from chromosomes 12, 17, and X. A recent study suggested that the karyotypically abnormal cells can be identified by their expression of CD30, which confers resistance to apoptosis. We have now investigated CD30 expression and apoptosis in karyotypically normal and abnormal sublines of the human ES cell line, H7, but our results were contrary to those previously observed. In this cell line, CD30 expression did not segregate the normal and abnormal cells, and abnormal cells were not protected from apoptosis. These data suggest that culture adaptation can occur through a variety of mechanisms. Stem Cells 2009;27:1057–1065
(c) 2009 AlphaMed Press
Human embryonic stem cells; CD30; Apoptosis; Chromosomal aberrations; Embryonal carcinoma; Culture adaptation; KAPPA-B ACTIVATION; SELF-RENEWAL; DIFFERENTIATION; APOPTOSIS; DEATH; INDUCTION; BIOMARKER; SURVIVAL; LIGAND; LINES
Abortion Clinic & Counseling Service of Virginia :: Birth Control Clinic :: Roanoke, VA
Health and Recovery Institute of Central Florida in Orlando, FL
Tom K Ball Inc - Tom K Ball DDS in Edmond, OK
Comprehensive Cancer Center in Columbus, OH
The Sign of Jonah Acupuncture Clinic in Washington, DC
Abortion Clinic & Counseling Service of Virginia
1119 2nd Street Southwest
richmondmedctrforwomen.com
Certified gynecologist. Our specialties include all birth control methods, local anesthesia & iv sedation, medical abortions, non- surgical & surgical abortions , non- surgical pill & surgical abortions , pregnancy tests and ultrasound for pregnancy dating. We can assist you with abortion services, all birth control methods, birth control, birth control devices, board certified gynecologist avail. , general anesthesia, iv anesthesia, local anesthesia, morning-after pill, non-surgical abortions, surgical abortion and ultrasound for pregnancy dating. We DO have emergency services available. In practice since 1973. 24 hour emergency phone service.
If you have used the services of Abortion Clinic & Counseling Service of Virginia we'd love to hear from you! Use the form below to review and comment on your experience.
MDHHS - Prescription drugs covered by Medicaid Health Plans topic of October meeting
LANSING, Mich. – The public is invited to attend an Oct. 1 meeting regarding the list of prescription drugs covered under Michigan's Medicaid health plans.
This list is known as the Medicaid Health Plan Common Formulary.
The annual Michigan Medicaid Health Plan common formulary stakeholder meeting will be held virtually this year due to COVID-19 from 9:30 a.m. to noon via Microsoft Teams. Details for joining via Teams is below:
+1 248-509-0316
Conference ID: 620 190 146#
The Michigan Department of Health and Human Services (MDHHS) in 2016 created the common formulary to streamline drug coverage policies for Medicaid and Healthy Michigan Plan beneficiaries and providers. The common formulary is required in state law and in the Medicaid health plan contract to ensure that prescription drugs are common across all contracted plans.
Medicaid health plans may be less restrictive – but not more restrictive – than the coverage in the common formulary for products not on the Michigan Preferred Drug List, which is a subset of the drugs listed on the common formulary.
Effective Oct. 1, the common formulary coverage for products will follow the Michigan Preferred Drug List – including any prior authorization and step therapy requirements. This initiative will result in significant savings to the State of Michigan and will further streamline consistency of drug coverage across Managed and Fee-For-Service Medicaid.
The purpose of the meeting is to provide an annual forum for the public, stakeholders and interested parties to comment on the prescription list. The forum is in addition to the quarterly written public comment periods.
"It is important for Medicaid and Healthy Michigan Plan beneficiaries to have the opportunity to comment on whether prescription drugs on the common formulary list will meet their health needs," said Kate Massey, MDHHS senior deputy director for Medical Services
Administration and Medicaid director. "We welcome their participation in this pubic meeting and look forward to hearing their insight – as well as feedback from providers and other stakeholders."
Anyone who plans to attend should notify krepsd@michigan.gov no later than Monday, Sept. 28 and is asked to request special accommodations if needed to join the meeting. Find more information about the common formulary, including the list of covered prescription drugs, at michigan.gov/MCOpharmacy.
Anyone unable to attend can submit questions or comments to the Common Formulary mailbox at MDHHSCommonFormulary@michigan.gov.
Microcurrent – RESTORE
Microcurrent therapy is a form of treatment used for patients with soft tissue injuries and chronic pain. It is very similar to electrical stimulation therapy, as electrodes are placed on the skin over the affected tissue, but it differs in that the patient's muscles are not physically stimulated. As the muscles are not stimulated you will not feel anything while the treatment is in process.
Each of our bodies has a natural electrical current the enables the cells to communicate more effectively. Microcurrent mimics our body's natural electrical current, triggering several chemical reactions at a cellular level. When our body experiences an injury or disease, the electrical currents are disrupted. Without these currents, the cells cannot function optimally. When cells are not functioning or communicating properly, it results in a decrease in our body's natural healing process.
Microcurrent therapy works to restore the electromagnetic field within our body so that the cells are more adaptable, and communication is increased. This in turn helps to speed up healing process of the body. Research regarding microcurrent therapy is still limited but it has been shown to decrease pain and reduce inflammation and is even being used to preform (non-surgical) facelifts due to its ability to both increase the bodies ATP and increase the body's natural elastin and collagen production.
cermel.org/MED4PRID
Medicines for Poverty Related Infectious Diseases and Implementation research
Dr. med. Ghyslain MOMBO-NGOMA, MD, PhD
Phone: +241(0)66072578
Email: ghyslain.mombongoma[AT]cermel.org
Dr. Rella Zoleko Manego
Dr. Lia Betty Dimessa Mbadinga
Dr. Malik Akinosho
Dr. Fran Wilfrid Nzebe Ndoumba
Dr. Dearie Glory Okwu
Dr. Emmanuel Koffi Yovo
Dr. Laura Kalkman Prof. dr. Peter Kremsner (UKT, Tuebingen, Germany)
Prof. dr. Michael Ramharter (BNITM, Hamburg, Germany)
Prof. dr. Martin Grobusch (AMC, Amsterdam, Netherlands)
Project managers / Site coordinators
Ms. Gaelle Diane Moussavou
Frederique Mbang Abba (Université des Sciences de la Santé, Libreville, Gabon)
Frank Ekokambassi (Université des Sciences de la Santé, Libreville, Gabon)
Biologists /Techical staff
Prisca Baguegni
Leslie Carole Mboughe Biang
Stephane Ondo Ondo
Rodrigue Ndong Essogho
Ida Flore Koumbi
Jean Thierry Lachot Ndong Engueng
Emma Gladis Malinga
Thiam Moussodji Abou
Epidemiology and control of poverty related infectious diseases (PRID) including malaria, HIV/AIDS, filariasis, schistosomiasis and others, are the main focus of our working group. We aim to improve prevention and treatment interventions. Our taget population is made of pregnant women, infants, children and adolescents.
1.	MAMAHHide the definition of MAMAH
Grant amount: EUR 2,985,000
The project includes six work packages (WPs). Two of them (WP1 and WP6) relate to the Project Management and Communication, Advocacy and Exploitation activities, whereas WP2, and 3 comprise the main research tasks, and 4 and 5 will address Capacity Building and Networking actions. ISGlobal, as overall Project Coordinator leads the aforementioned WPs 1 and 6. WP4 is coordinated by Dr Ghyslain Mombo-Ngoma (CERMEL, Gabon) and will have the support of Dr Heimo Lagler (Medical University of Vienna, Austria).
The activities included in this work package will contribute to achieving the project objectives through collaboration between the European and African partners involved to develop the technical capacity and infrastructure required to carry out clinical trials for malaria control. Opportunities for capacity building will occur throughout the entire project in an integrated way. More specifically, this work package will:
Further information can be found on the MAMAH project webpage
2. ASAAPHide the definition of ASAAP
ASAAP is a 48-month lasting clinical trial research to evaluate the efficacy, safety, tolerability and pharmacokinetics of a new antimalarial drug combination, with particular focus on its successful application in one of the largest and most vulnerable demographics of Africa – i.e. children 0-5 years old. The overall aim is to develop new antimalarial treatments by combining existing, efficacious medicines for treatment of malaria in African children by promoting African and European research collaboration and strengthening the capacity of African institutions to conduct clinical research.
ASAAP is part of the European and Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership 2 (EDCTP2) program supported by the European Union (EU) and receives funding from the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF) and the National Institut of Health and Medical Research in France (INSERM).
The project is being led and coordinated by Dr. Oumou Maiga-Ascofaré of the BNITM in Hamburg, Germany and the KCCR in Kumasi, Ghana under the authority of the Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology (KNUST), in collaboration with:
Dr. Ghyslain Mombo-Ngoma from the Center de Recherches Médicales de Lambaréné (CERMEL) in Lambaréné, Gabon
Prof. Abdoulaye Djimde from the Université des Sciences, des Techniques et des Technologies de Bamako (USTTB) in Bamako, Mali
Dr. Serge Yerbanga from the Institut des Sciences et Techniques (INSTech) in Bobo-Dioulasso, Burkina Faso
Dr. John Amuasi from KCCR and the department of Global Health at the KNUST School of Public Health in Kumasi, Ghana
Further information can be found on the EDCTP webpage
3. WANECAM2Hide the definition of WANECAM2
WANECAM is the West African Network for Clinical Trials of Antimalarial drugs. This network is being supported by grants from the European &Developing Countries Clinical Trials Partnership (EDCTP). The WANECAM 2 project aims to accelerate the development of the Ganaplacide/lumefantrine combination for the treatment of uncomplicated malaria by conducting clinical trials in four countries in West and Central Africa: Burkina Faso, Gabon, Mali and Niger.
Moreover, and very importantly, the project includes activities around capacity building (e.g. training and infrastructure development) to improve the capabilities in West African countries to develop new antimalarial drugs. The aim is to advance the development of a much-needed new antimalarial therapy while strengthening clinical trial development capabilities in Africa. The WANECAM 2 project includes participants from West Africa and Europe and is coordinated by Prof Djimde from the University of Bamako. See a full list of our collaborators.
Further information can be found on the WANECAM2 website or on the EDCTP webpage.
4. PAMAFRICAHide the definition of PAMAFRICA
Portfolio approach to developing the next generation of malaria treatments for Africa ("PAMAFRICA")
This proposal presents leading drug candidates from the MMV-partnership portfolio, plus reformulations of licensed medicines, to be evaluated in clinical trials. A consortium-driven program will be undertaken, with the aim of delivering 4 key outcomes – a single-dose cure and an injectable cure for severe malaria, both for evaluation in confirmatory Phase III studies, and a treatment for neonates, along with a significant increase in African research capacity. Additional partner benefits include leadership development, community engagement, and networking and team-building, driven through European-African and intra-African collaborations. The consortium partners will include CISM Manhiça (Mozambique), CERMEL (Gabon), University of Tübingen, IS Global, Novartis, Merck and others, and be led by MMV who will also guarantee 50% of the co-funding.
Medicines for Malaria Venture, Switzerland, Timothy Wells
University of Tübingen, Germany, Peter Kremsner Barcelona Institute for Global Health (IS Global), Spain, Quique Bassat Centro de Investigação em Saude de Manhiça (CISM), Mozambique, Eusebio Macete Centre de Recherches Médicales de Lambaréné (CERMEL), Gabon, Ghyslain Mombo-Ngoma Novartis Pharma AG-Basel, Switzerland, David Hughes
EDCTP contribution: €21.9M
Total budget: €44M
5. CKAF156A2202Hide the definition of CKAF156A2202
This study aims to determine the most effective and tolerable dose at the shortest dosing regimen of the investigational drug KAF156 in combination with a solid dispersion formulation of lumefantrine (LUM-SDF) in adult/adolescent and pediatric patients with uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. There is unmet medical need for anti-malarial treatment with new mechanism of action to reduce probability of developing resistance, and for duration shorter than 3 days of treatment and/or reduced pill burden.
Novartis reference number
CKAE609A2202
6. CKAE609A2202Hide the definition of CKAE609A2202
KAE609 will be evaluated primarily for hepatic safety of single and multiple doses in sequential cohorts with increasing doses. This study aims to determine the maximum safe dose of the investigational drug KAE609 in malaria patients.
7. DRI12805/FALCIHide the definition of DRI12805/FALCI
To Evaluate the Efficacy of a Single Dose Regimen of Ferroquine and Artefenomel in Adults and Children With Uncomplicated Plasmodium Falciparum Malaria (FALCI).
To determine whether a single dose combination of OZ439 (Artefenomel)/FQ (Ferroquine) is an efficacious treatment for uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in adults and children. Secondary Objectives:
To evaluate the efficacy of OZ439 (Artefenomel)/FQ (Ferroquine)
To determine the incidence of recrudescence and re-infection
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of OZ439 (Artefenomel)/FQ (Ferroquine).
To evaluate the pharmacokinetics of OZ439 (Artefenomel)/FQ (Ferroquine).
To explore in vitro drug resistance of P. falciparum infecting patients >14 years old in Vietnamese sites.
NCT02497612
Sanofi/MMV reference number
DRI12805
Drug: Ferroquine
8. ACT14655Hide the definition of ACT14655
To show the contribution of OZ439 to the clinical and parasiticidal effect of OZ439/FQ combination by analyzing exposure-response of OZ439 measured by Day 28 polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-corrected adequate clinical and parasitological response (ACPR) for the effect and the AUC of OZ439 as PK predictor.
To evaluate the dose response of OZ439 combined with FQ on PCR-corrected ACPR and crude Day 28 ACPR, and on other secondary endpoints.
To evaluate the safety and tolerability of different dosages of OZ439 in combination with FQ and FQ alone.
To characterize the PK of OZ439 in plasma, and of FQ and its active metabolite SSR97213 in blood.
NCT03660839
ACT14655
9. LOLOTREATHide the definition of LOLOTREAT
Safety and efficacy of different albendazole-based treatment regimens to reduce microfilaraemia in subjects infected by Loa loa in an endemic area of Gabon: a randomised controlled open-label pilot study
Treatment options for loiasis, a filarial disease caused by infection with Loa loa, are currently limited by the very few drugs of any known efficacy and the risk of severe adverse reactions in patients with high microfilarial loads. Optimisation of regimens for the safe reduction of L. loa microfilaria could contribute to reduction of disease transmission, as well as facilitating elimination campaigns for lymphatic filariasis and onchocerciasis in co-endemic areas.
This randomised controlled open-label pilot study will explore the efficacy, sustainability and safety of three albendazole-based treatment regimens for reducing L. loa microfilaraemia in infected subjects in an endemic region of Gabon. Adult male subjects with L. loa microfilarial loads <50,000 mf/mL identified within the ongoing loiasis epidemiology study (BuDiLoLo) in Tsamba-Magotsi department will be eligible for inclusion following provision of written informed consent>.
Pan African Clinical Trials Registry: PACTR201807197019027.
10. IVERCUREHide the definition of IVERCURE
Efficacy and safety of Ivermectin for the treatment of Plasmodium falciparum infections in asymptomatic Gabonese adults
Ivermectin has a potent anti-parasitic and anti-insecticide activity against many organisms including ecto- and endoparasites in animals and in humans. Malaria, a mosquito-borne disease caused by parasites of the genus Plasmodium, remains the most important parasitic disease in humans worldwide. It has been shown that ivermectin can reduce transmission of Plasmodium parasites by its activity against blood-sucking mosquitoes, but recent in vitro data suggests that ivermectin has also and effect on the erythrocytic stages of P. falciparum, but in vivo data are lacking.
Besides its insecticidal activity, the excellent safety profile of ivermectin, which has been used for decades in mass drug administration programs, and a different mechanism of action compared to other antimalarials make ivermectin an interesting candidate for malaria control and elimination campaigns. This dose escalation study is designed to assess the activity of ivermectin on the parasitaemia of asymptomatic P. falciparum infections.
The aim of this study is to investigate whether ivermectin is safe at a 3x300 µg/kg treatment course and can reduce or clear parasitaemia in participants infected with P. falciparum assessed by thick blood smear microscopy.
Primary Objective(s): To assess the safety and tolerability of single- and multiple ascending doses of iver-mectin in volunteers with asymptomatic P. falciparum infection. To assess the efficacy of ivermectin in participants with asymptomatic P. falciparum infection.
Secondary Objective(s): To compare efficacy of ivermectin 200μg/kg single dose versus two-day 200µg/kg treatment versus three-day 200μg/kg treatment versus three-day 300µg/kg treatment. To compare efficacy of ivermectin three-day 300µg/kg treatment compared to placebo. To compare safety and tolerability of ivermectin 200μg/kg single dose versus two-day 200µg/kg treatment versus three-day 200μg/kg treatment versus three-day 300µg/kg treatment.
Pan African Clinical Trials Registry: PACTR201908520097051
11. GRATTI-GRATTAHide the definition of GRATTI-GRATTA
Background It is unclear whether individual treatment of scabies is similarly effective compared to household treatment. This study therefore compared these two treatment strategies with topical benzyl benzoate for treating scabies in Lambaréné and surroundings in Gabon.
Methods Subjects presenting with uncomplicated scabies were randomized into either the Individual Treatment group, where only the affected subjects received treatment, or the Household Treatment group, where all family members were treated in parallel to the affected subjects regardless of signs and symptoms. The primary endpoint was clinical cure after 28 days; the secondary endpoint was the proportion of affected household members per household after 28 days.
12. GMAC/MCDIHide the definition of GMAC/MCDI
Improved Integrated Maternal and Child Survival through Malaria and HIV Prevention
Gabon Malaria and AIDS Control (GMAC) project
The Gabon Malaria and AIDS (GMAC) project proposed by Medical Care Development International (MCDI) and selected public health research institutes aims to improve the delivery of WHO recommended prevention, testing, treatment and tracking of malaria and HIV/AIDS at the health facilities in 10 communities in the Nyanga province, one of the least developed in Gabon.
Through this project, MCDI prioritizes malaria and HIV prevention amongst the highest risk groups, consisting of pregnant women and infants. Interventions include the targeted distribution of mosquito bed nets to women attending the antenatal care (ANC) facilities, as well as the provision of intermittent preventive treatment of malaria during pregnancy (IPTp) and prevention of the mother-to-child transmission (PMTCT) of HIV through implementing PTMCT. A population of about 52 000 inhabitants is covered by the interventions in the Nyanga province. The communities include Tchibanga, Moabi, Mayumba, Mulengui-Binza, Mabanda, Murindi and Ndenguilila.
The overall goal of the project is to improve the quality and availability of malaria and HIV control services in five communities in Nyanga province, reducing mother-to-child transmission of HIV/AIDS and decreasing malaria cases and deaths among pregnant women and children under five years of age as well as in the general population.
Health facilities refurbished through infrastructure improvements, equipment and supplies to strengthen overall conditions at primary health care facilities in Nyanga province
Training of health professionals on malaria and HIV/AIDS
Improve service delivery for malaria through improvement of WHO-recommended prevention, testing, treatment, and tracking of malaria at primary health facilities in Nyanga province in Gabon
Improved service delivery for HIV/AIDS through improvement of WHO-recommended testing, counseling, treatment, and tracking of HIV-positive expecting women at primary health facilities
SINDOFO
13.	FOSPIP
14.	MMVOZ439
15.	BUDILOLO
16.	OIE
17.	REPLAMO
18.	MIPPAD
19.	4ABC
INFRASTRURES UPGRADE
20.	CRMN FOUGAMOU
21.	RENOVATION OF HEALTH FACILITIES OF THE NYANGA PROVINCE
22.	INSTALLATION OF SOLAR PANELS IN DISPENSARIES OF THE MOH
23.	CASE DE SANTE OF FOURPLACE
24.	TRAINING OF HEALTH PROFESSIONALS OF THE NYANGA PROVINCE ON THE MANAGEMENT OF MALARIA
25.	TRAINING OF HEALTH PROFESSIONALS OF THE NYANGA PROVINCE ON THE PREVENTION OF THE MOTHER TO CHILD TRANSMISSION OF HIV
26.	TRAINING OF HEALTH PROFESSIONALS OF THE NYANGA PROVINCE ON MICROSCOPY OF MALARIA
27.	GOOD CLINICAL PRACTICE
BNITM MALARIA MEETING 2019, Hamburg, Germany
MMV 20th ANNIVERSARY, Geneva, Switzerland
ASTMH 2018, New Orleans, LA, USA
EDCTP FORUM 2018, Porto, Portugal
ASTMH 2017, Baltimore, MD, USA
ECTMITH
ASTMH 2016, Atlanta, GA, USA
EDCTP Forum 2016, Lusaka, Zambia
ALL PUBLICATIONS [View all on PubMed]
Adegbite BR, Edoa JR, Honkpehedji YJ, Zinsou FJ, Dejon-Agobe JC, Mbong-Ngwese M, Lotola-Mougueni F, Koehne E, Lalremruata A, Kreidenweiss A, Nguyen TT, Kun J, Agnandji ST, Lell B, Safiou AR, Obone Atome FA, Mombo-Ngoma G, Ramharter M, Velavan TP, Mordmüller B, Kremsner PG, Adegnika AA. Monitoring of efficacy, tolerability and safety of artemether-lumefantrine and artesunate-amodiaquine for the treatment of uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria in Lambaréné, Gabon: an open-label clinical trial. Malar J. 2019 Dec 16;18(1):424. [Abstract] [Free Full Article]
