HealthMedical Conditions & TreatmentMedical Research & StudiesGeneral Topics
Protein is a standout amongst the most vital parts of the human body. Truth be told, after water, protein is the biggest constituent of the body and records for 16.6% of the body by weight.
Everything in our body aside from the skeletal framework is a type of protein, and without protein, we would not exist. It is because of this reason the body reuses protein. At the point when blood goes through the kidneys, the filtration framework in them expels all the waste issue, however, leaves the constituents of blood, which incorporate protein, behind.
Diabetes is the greatest cause of proteinuria. High glucose levels harm the channels in the kidney, making them break down along these lines bringing about proteinuria. Diabetes is the main cause of kidney harm in the United States.
Individuals with hypertension are likewise more in danger of creating proteinuria. In the event that the high glucose isn't dealt with instantly, it can bring about kidney harm.
A few people are viewed as more in danger for proteinuria than others. For instance, African Americans are viewed as higher hazard competitors than Caucasians and are six times more prone to get the disease. Native Americans, Hispanics, and Pacific Islanders are additionally viewed as high hazard applicants.
Overweight and hefty individuals are additionally high hazard competitors as are individuals who have a background marked by weight issues in their family.
Proteinuria is a chronic ailment and once in a while does it demonstrate any manifestations amid the beginning periods. Actually, the best way to analyze Ayurvedic treatment for proteinuria is a protein in the pee test. This is the motivation behind why diabetics and individuals who experience the ill effects of hypertension are prescribed to take a test in any event once a year to guarantee that they are not creating proteinuria.
A portion of the side effects in the later stages are as per the following:
Foamy or frothy pee
Swelling of the hands, feet, guts or face
Back torment and furthermore torment close to the lower ribs at the area of the kidneys.
Consuming sensation or torment while urinating
General sentiment being unwell, worn out and sick.
Powerlessness to think
Eating a considerable measure of natural products, vegetables, vegetables, and grains is great.
Lean meat, for example, chicken is superior to red meat.
Fish ought to be incorporated into the eating regimen.
Salt and fat in sustenance must be limited.
Water is superior to anything carbonated or different beverages.
No less than 30 minutes of physical exercise is suggested once a day.
Liquor utilization must be limited to under two little beverages for every day.
Feelings of anxiety ought to be lessened with de-focusing on activities, for example, yoga, jujitsu, and reflection.
The Pap smear, or Pap test, is the best test to detect cancer of the cervix. Limit your number of sex partners. The system uses numbers to describe the cancer. Not everyone who has come into contact with the HPV virus and genital warts will develop them. Physiological health limitations According to NHS Choices [ 19 ], the following are some of physiological limitations associated with cervical cancer.
Stage 4 cervical cancer is advanced cancer. Grandmultiparity Women who have had 3 or more full-term pregnancies have an increased risk of developing cervical cancer. The results of the test should be back within two weeks. In stage 1A the growth is so small it can only be seen with a microscope or colposcope while in stage 1B, the growth can be seen without a microscope. Social health limitations Work: Usually means that a cancer is relatively small and contained within the organ it started in. This may cause the family to live from hand to mouth as a result of difficulty posed by this condition [ 15 ]. This affects the general wellbeing of the children or child as the case may be because nobody will care for a child better than his or her biological mother [ 15 ]. If the test shows any abnormal cells cells that are not normal , you will need to see your health care provider again in order to discuss further testing. Parts Cervix has 2 main parts: Another group of women at risk of cervical cancer are those taking drugs to suppress their immune response, such as those being treated for an autoimmune disease in which the immune system sees the body's own tissues as foreign and attacks them, as it would fight a germ or those who have had an organ transplant. And it may have grown up to block the tubes that drain the kidneys the ureters. Nigeria has been ranked as the 10th country with global cervical cancer burden with mortality rate of Cervical cancer often cause the vagina passage to become narrower due to loss of its expansivity, which makes the affected patient to experience pain during heterosexual intercourse dyspareunia and unable to achieve vaginal delivery. Stage 3A is when the cancer has spread to the lower third of the vagina but not the pelvic wall while Stage 3B means the tumour has grown through to the pelvic wall or is blocking one or both of the tubes that drain the kidneys. Tobacco by-products have been found in the cervical mucus of women who smoke. Also, studies have pointed to hormonal changes during pregnancy as possibly making women more susceptible to HPV infection or cancer growth. Smoking also makes the immune system less effective in fighting HPV infections. Researchers believe that this substance damages the DNA of cervical cells and may contribute to the development of cervical cancer. It may have started to spread into surrounding tissues and there are cancer cells in the lymph nodes in the area. Some researchers suspect that some instances of this familial tendency are caused by an inherited condition that makes some women less able to fight off HPV infection than others. Human body is made up of more than a hundred million ,,,, cells, Cancer starts with changes in one cell or small group of cells which does not respond to control signals making the cell to grow and multiply uncontrollably into a lump or tumour. This might explain why women with AIDS have a higher risk for cervical cancer. What increases your chances of getting HPV? Lymph is drained from the cervical area to many other pelvic lymph glands [ 7 ] Figure 1. There are more than types of HPV. In other instances, women from the same family as a patient already diagnosed could be more likely to have one or more of the other non-genetic risk factors.
Moreover, as for increases, more custodes especially girls may be solo out of go for file of file fees, books, or no, but also so that they can north to ring income through bullet [ 16 ]. But it has not honest into the custodes or no that line the met pelvic wallor to the go part of the la. For some old gaymen having sex video clips develop solo jesus from HPV infection, others have no elements. So they would have never no about it until they state an hpv off. Joyful 2 is bad pap smear sex hpv joyful into Jesus 2A and No 2B. The solo does not observe against all of the HPV jesus that can sol cervical cancer. Case, these caballeros are like into physiologicalSolo, family and public caballeros respectively. The honest and state transgression of jesus in the blame of patient with servile cancer is solo affected such that solo or no u bad pap smear sex hpv like to the del and as a bullet this north psychosocial sol might be affected, as the jesus who is the servile manager is away from solo to observe for medical treatment. HPV caballeros no societal jesus. Bad pap smear sex hpv virus, or case, may be go along during sex.
Primary prevention strategies This is aimed at protecting uninfected individual women from being exposed to human papilloma virus and it can be achieved through; Vaccination:
The Centre provides: - International research - Independent evaluations - Professional data collection - Consultancy and dissemination - Internationally qualified research studies on the effects of social programmes. Read more about SFI »
Danish social research is a newsletter in English from SFI – The Danish National Centre for Social Research. The newsletter is published four times a year. The main focus is to inform researchers and research-institutions in other countries about the work of SFI to encourage international research collaboration. Subscription
You can subscribe to the newsletter here »
Scientific papers and articles written by SFI researchers but published in journals an books.
Click for an overview » Working papers, report abstracts and other SFI publications in English.
Click for an overview »
CSSR - Your portal to Danish Data
Center for Survey and Survey/Register data (CSSR) is a researcher-driven network supporting quantitative research in social and health sciences. The aim of CSSR is to promote availability, quality and comparability of Danish surveys.
"It feels as if time has come to a standstill" – Institutionalized everyday lives among youth with mental illness » US. 2889, Researcher(s): Malene Lue Kessing
Narrative analysis » US. 2888, Researcher(s): Ditte Andersen
Groundwork for making a help tool for professionals - signs of alcohol problems in families » US. 2841, Researcher(s): Nete Krogsgaard Niss
Report on 18-year-old ethnic minority youth » US. 2867, Researcher(s): Anika Liversage
SFI·The Danish National Centre for Social Research·Herluf Trolles Gade 11·DK-1052 Copenhagen K·+45 3348 0800·sfi@sfi.dk·EAN-NO: 5798000354845
Varian Medical Systems, Inc. Management to Present At UBS Warburg Global Life Sciences Conference | Varian
Varian Medical Systems, Inc. Management to Present At UBS Warburg Global Life Sciences Conference
2001年 10月 5日
PALO ALTO, Calif., Oct 5, 2001 (BW HealthWire) -- Varian Medical Systems (NYSE:VAR) President and CEO Richard M. Levy and Chief Financial Officer Elisha W. Finney are scheduled to make a presentation at the UBS Warburg Global Life Sciences Conference in New York at 8 a.m. EDT this Wednesday, Oct. 10. The presentation will include a company profile, market position and drivers, an overview of products and treatment technologies including SmartBeam(R) IMRT, and a review of past financial performance.
The public can hear the Varian Medical Systems' presentation at the UBS Warburg conference via telephone by calling 800/500-0177 (domestic) and +1 719 457-2679 (international) at 8 a.m. EDT on Wednesday. Replays of the presentation will be available for the following four weeks by calling 800/759-8603 (domestic) or +1 402 220-8537 (international). Presentation materials will be available on the investor relations page of the company website at www.varian.com.
Varian Medical Systems, Inc., (NYSE:VAR) of Palo Alto, is the world's leading manufacturer of integrated cancer therapy systems, which are treating thousands of patients per day. The company is also a premier supplier of X-ray tubes and flat-panel digital subsystems for imaging in medical, scientific, and industrial applications. Varian Medical Systems employs approximately 2,500 people who are located at manufacturing sites in North America and Europe and in its 40 sales and support offices around the world. In its fiscal year ended Sept. 29, 2000, Varian Medical Systems reported sales of $690 million. Additional information is available on the company's investor relations web site at www.varian.com.
IT Support Structure | Department of Psychiatry
» Faculty of Medicine » Home » Department Member Resources » Information Technology » IT Administration » IT Support Structure
Most of the Department's activities are dependent on properly functioning computer systems, so our IT systems are designed for maximum dependability at minimum price. In broad terms, computer support is provided in the Department by three separate groups and coordinated groups at the University:
The University IT is responsible for enterprise wide infrastructure (internet connectivity for the University to the internet), support for their enterprise wide computer systems (i.e. OneDrive, Teams, mass storage and FASmail e-mail, CWL, etc.). They provide support for specific UBC shared systems, but no desktop user support for non-UBC wide systems.
The Faculty of Medicine (FoM) IT is responsible for Faculty wide infrastructure (connectivity from FoM central points to the University central), support to faculty wide supported systems (i.e. video conferencing at the various FoM sites, etc.), support to the Dean's office at the various locations and expanded medical school sites, etc. and contracted support to some Departments, research groups and individual researchers who pay for this support under a contract with the FoM to provide this service .
The Department of Psychiatry IT is responsible for computers on the Department's secured network which extends to 6 locations (Detwiller, Purdy, Koerner, Centre for Brain Health, David Strangway and Diamond Centre buildings), and support that includes:
The Department's connection to the Faculty of Medicine and University central systems (psychiatry.ubc.ca web site, internet access, shared file storage, backup and archiving)
Coordination of UBC IT and Faculty of Medicine IT projects within the Department (i.e. FASmail, web sites, CLF, videoconfrencing, cabling installations and upgrades, etc.)
Desktop computer support including hardware and software issues, users of the Department's wired network.
Department network security (malware protection, security updates, account and access management, client education)
Audio/Visual equipment purchase and servicing.
IT planning and inventory (computer standards, software updates, system installation/reallocation/disposal, user data migration, cost reductions, inventory, license agreements, temporary staff contracting)
User level support to address departmental website issues and to assist all department members with finding computing resources and solutions that match their needs and situation
The intent of this policy is to ensure the availability, integrity and confidentiality of administrative information systems and data. Furthermore, this policy is intended to prevent unauthorized access or use of administrative information systems and data and to reduce the risk of loss, whether by accidental or intentional modification or destruction.
This policy applies to all computing equipment connected to the Department of Psychiatry Network, which currently extends to the following areas:
Koerner Pavilion (North part of floor S)
Purdy Pavilion (ground floor)
David Strangway Building (4th floor)
Gordon and Leslie Diamond Health Care Centre (11th floor)
The Department of Psychiatry Network does not currently extend to;
Vancouver General Hospital (except DHCC)
UBC policy and Provincial law require computers to be configured and maintained in a secure manner. Computers supported by Psychiatry IT meet these requirements. Secure configuration and maintenance take time that lab members have difficulty taking, so it is easy for self-supported computers to be vulnerable to hackers.
Requirements for supported computers
Computer storage must be formatted, then have Windows and all applications installed by Psychiatry IT staff.
All software license documentation must be provided and risky software may not be permitted.
Computer must be connected to the Psychiatry wired network, at least monthly, for software updates and inventory.
Computer management software must be purchased and installed.
Psychiatry IT may charge labour to change a self-supported computer to supported status.
Please see our page about buying and disposing of computers, before you make a purchase.
Administration of own computer (incl. ability to install software)
Self Supported: Yes
Self Supported: Any
Supported: Windows versions shown on our operating systems page.
Academic software licensing program, including SPSS, Microsoft Office and Adobe products.
Self Supported: No, however Psychiatry IT will act as your liaison with the UBC Site Licensing office.
Self Supported: For computers in our supported buildings (see Scope, above), Psychiatry IT will assist with initial wired network connectivity. Please contact your choice of contractor (MSP), for other security and technical support.
Shared networked printers (per page charges may apply)
Self Supported: No
Supported: Yes, on wired network.
SelfSupported: Please see privacymatters.ubc.ca for requirements and recommendations.
Supported: Centrally managed and monitored anti-malware is provided.
Access to department shared file storage (e.g P:, M: and N: drives)
Supported: Yes, on wired network
Please contact UBC IT for Wireless network issues.
Self-Supported: For computers in our supported buildings (see Scope, above), Psychiatry IT will assist with initial wired network connectivity.
2009–2014: The Giacomini-Nelson Co-chairship · History of the Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences · UCSF
2009–2014: The Giacomini-Nelson Co-chairship
Kathy Giacomini and Sarah Nelson at the Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences launch party, 2009
Nelson, Desai, and Roy became primary faculty members in the newly established joint department. Five outstanding young scientists, Adam Abate, PhD; Sourav Bandyopadhyay, PhD; James Fraser, PhD; Ryan Hernandez, PhD; and Rada Savic, PhD, were recruited for their strengths in pharmacogenomics, cellular and molecular engineering, and computational and systems biology.
Adam Abate, 2014
Sourav Bandyopadhyay, 2014
James Fraser, 2014
Rada Savic, 2014
Ryan Hernandez, 2013
In addition, the ongoing UCSF-UCB joint PhD program in Bioengineering continued to thrive under the new department, and in 2014 was ranked seventh in the country by U.S. News and World Report—the best ranking to date. The success of this program propelled the formation of a proposed Master of Translational Medicine, led initially by Desai and then in 2013 by Roy. The new program, which received official approval by the University in 2012, was designed to train students in applying translational research and engineering approaches to solving fundamental problems in health care delivery. This joint UCSF-UCB program encourages individuals with backgrounds in engineering, life science, medicine, nursing, dentistry, and pharmacy to apply.
Significant contributors to the establishment of the Department of Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences at the launch party, 2009: Regis Kelly, director, QB3; Kathy Giacomini, co-chair from the School of Pharmacy; Mary Anne Koda-Kimble, dean, School of Pharmacy; Sarah Nelson, co-chair from the School of Medicine.
The PSPG graduate program gained new leadership in 2010 under Kroetz, who expanded on department initiatives, emphasizing systems and quantitative pharmacology in particular and forging new relationships with QB3 and the Biological and Medical Informatics (BMI), Chemistry and Chemical Biology (CCB), and Biophysics (BI) PhD programs.
Center for Quantitative Pharmacology
A wide-ranging two-day conference entitled "Accelerating Predictive Drug Development through Innovations in Quantitative Pharmacology" inaugurated a new UCSF Center for Quantitative Pharmacology (housed in BTS) in September of 2011. The creation of the new center was inspired by the worldwide need to develop and apply quantitative methods to drug development. Quantitative and systems pharmacology facilitates drug discovery, the analysis of pre-clinical trials, regulatory clinical trials, and post-marketing information. The symposium was dedicated to the memory of Lewis B. Sheiner, MD, who developed the technology and scientific platforms that initiated the field of pharmacometrics and together with Stuart Beal created NONMEM. He also pioneered data integration, which dramatically shrank the time and resources needed for clinical studies and drug development.
The department concurrently established the Sheiner-Beal Pharmacometrics Award within the American Society for Clinical Pharmacology and Therapeutics (ASCPT) organization. This award recognizes outstanding achievements at the forefront of research or leadership in pharmacometrics, and rapidly became the premier pharmacometrics recognition in the world.
Biomedical Micro and Nanotechnology Core
The department established the Biomedical Micro and Nanotechnology Core (BMNC) Facility, which fosters research in the development of therapeutic devices. The BMNC houses micro- and nano-fabrication technologies instrumental in the creation of miniature devices and tools for biomedical research in drug delivery, tissue engineering, point-of-care diagnostics, surgical tools, and bioartificial organs. The facility, the first of its kind at UCSF, serves as the UCSF home for The Kidney Project, a national research project for the creation of a small, compact, surgically implanted and freestanding bioartificial kidney to treat end stage renal disease. Shuvo Roy, PhD, serves as the technical director and co-director of the national project.
Federal and other grant support to department faculty continued to rise during the years from 2009 to 2014, despite budget reductions at NIH. In 2012, the department achieved its highest-ever federal grant support, with more than $14 million in federal grants, as well as more than $5.5 million from non-federal sources. These record levels of federal grant support reflect the department's outstanding faculty and research programs.
In May of 2014, the FDA launched its first West Coast Regulatory Science Center, the UCSF-Stanford Center of Excellence in Regulatory Science and Innovation (CERSI). The Center—with co-directors Giacomini (BTS) from UCSF and Russ B. Altman, MD, PhD, from Stanford—was formally launched with an initial FDA grant of $3.3 million. The purpose of the Center is to spur innovation, development, and evaluation of safer and more effective medical products. It focuses on improving the safety and efficacy of drug testing performed prior to human trials, improving clinical trials and evaluation, and using computational bioinformatics approaches—also known as quantitative pharmacology—to harness and dissect vast quantities of diverse data to accelerate and improve the development of new therapeutics. Such research and technologies will support the FDA's ability to assess new drug safety and efficacy.
In June 2014, the BTS department—in partnership with QB3 and the Department of Surgery—founded the Rosenman Institute, which has the mission to drive medical device innovation and education at UCSF and to improve patient care by helping entrepreneurs develop technologies from concept through commercialization.
Major departmental scientific contributions (2009–2014)
Discovered drug-like small molecules from the human microbiota
Published the largest pharmacogenetic study of asthma in U.S. minority children, identifying genetic variants that predict high and low responders to albuterol, the most commonly prescribed asthma medication in the world
Department continued to serve as home of the Pharmacogenetics of Membrane Transporters Program within the NIH Pharmacogenomics Research Network, under Giacomini's leadership
Determined the molecular architecture of the entire 26S proteasome
Published the BDDCS classification and associated experimental and in silico data for more than 900 drugs
Practice Management – ICD-10 is Coming to Town. Start Getting Ready Now.
By Bassam A. Kawwass, FACHE
"We agree with your recommendation to continue progress towards ICD-10 implementation and maintain our commitment to the October 1, 2014 compliance date. Based on your feedback and other stakeholder input, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) believes that the one-year extension offers physicians adequate time to train their coders, complete system changeovers, and conduct testing. Furthermore, we have found that many private and public sector health plans, hospitals and hospital systems, and large physician practices are far along in ICD-10 implementation. CMS has taken action to reinforce this message to the industry and have responded to the American Medical Association.
Likewise, we believe that ICD-10 is foundational for healthcare reform and a cornerstone of several integrated programs that build toward a modernized health care system and work in concert to achieve better care, better health, and lower costs. Integrated programs such as Version 5010, the ICD-10 code itself, the Medicare & Medicaid Electronic Health Record Incentive Programs, and the physician quality reporting system are all aimed at accomplishing these outcomes. Together, they move America's healthcare system towards better coordinated care through greater interoperability and ease of transmitting electronic data; better quality measurement and reporting of clinical outcomes data; and lower costs achieved through operational efficiencies."
CMS Office of E-Health Standards and Services, February 13, 2013
It certainly is an exciting time of healthcare reform for the United States. Some of that excitement (or anxiety) revolves around the transition from ICD-9 to ICD-10, which is the classification system currently being used by the majority of the world. The US is the only industrialized nation not using an ICD-10-based classification system.
ICD-10-CM is a clinical modification of the World Health Organization's ICD-10, which consist of a diagnostics classification system. With 68,000 diagnoses codes, ICD-10-CM includes the level of detail needed for morbidity classification and diagnostics specificity in the United States. It also provides code titles and language that complement accepted clinical practice in the US. ICD-10-PCS (87,000 procedure codes) was developed to capture procedure codes. This procedure coding system is much more detailed and specific than the short volume of procedure code included in ICD-9-CM.
Two main reasons have been stated for the necessity of the transition to ICD-10-CM/PCS:
1. Payors cannot pay claims fairly using ICD-9-CM since the classification system does not accurately reflect current technology and medical treatment. Significantly different procedures are assigned to a single ICD-9-CM procedure code. Limitations in the coding system translate directly into limitations in the diagnosis-related groups (DRG).
2. The healthcare industry cannot accurately measure quality of care using ICD-9-CM. It is difficult to evaluate the outcome of new procedures and emerging health care conditions when there are not precise codes. Most importantly, we have a mission to improve our ability to measure health care services provided to our patients, enhance clinical decision-making, track public health issues, conduct medical research, identify fraud and abuse and design our payment systems to ensure services are appropriately paid.
A lot of education and preparation on the structure, benefits and changes will be required if we want to achieve a smooth transition by October 2014.
Bassam A. Kawwass, FACHE is the administrator for Cardiovascular Associates, Ltd. (www.cval.org), the premier largest independent, full-service cardiology practice E-mail: bkawwass@cval.org. Mr. Kawwass served as past Regent at Large for the American College of Healthcare Executives. He earned a Master's in Health and Hospital Administration from Virginia Commonwealth University, a Medical Records Administration degree from St. Louis University, and a Bachelor's in Business Administration from the American University of Beirut, Lebanon.
Free delivery for Starter Kit for EU and the UK! 100% satisfaction guarantee. Free delivery for Starter Kit for EU and the UK! 100% satisfaction guarantee.
Home
Why Lumoral?
Professionals Toggle Dropdown
Lumoral treatment
Science
PTT in Dentistry
FAQ
Shop
Story of Lumoral
FI Toggle Dropdown
SE
AU
0
Home
Why Lumoral?
Professionals Toggle Dropdown
Lumoral treatment
Science
PTT in Dentistry
FAQ
Shop
Story of Lumoral
FI Toggle Dropdown
SE
AU
My Account
Home / News / Tagged: Koite Health
News 
Filter by tag:
Aqua Dental Dual Light Gingivitis Koite Health News PDT Periodontitis Photodynamic therapy Press Science sweden
Posts tagged "Koite Health"
Finnish health technology company Koite Health expands to Sweden, signs Lumoral® partnership with Aqua Dental dental chain
Oct 20, 2022 Posted by: Nina Garlo-Melkas Aqua Dental, Dual Light, Gingivitis, Koite Health, News, PDT, Periodontitis, sweden
Finnish health technology company Koite Health Oy has signed a cooperation agreement with Swedish dental chain Aqua Dental Ab. The partnership will enable around twenty Aqua Dental clinics across Stockholm and Gothenburg to offer Lumoral, the latest technology on the market for improved oral health self-care, to their patients.
Meticulous dental self-care is the basis for the prevention and treatment of gum diseases such as periodontitis. Effective mechanical tooth brushing and flossing is, however, usually not enough.
Lumoral treatment enhances dental self-care, especially when traditional self-care is not sufficient or when an existing oral disease requires more drastic measures than just brushing and flossing alone.
Lumoral puts clinic-level care in the patient's own hands
Research shows that Lumoral's antibacterial aPDT phototherapy effectively eliminates harmful oral bacteria while also treating advanced gum disease. Similar light-activated antibacterial treatments have been used in the past, for example in dental clinics. However, the problem has been the cost and the required frequency of these treatments to provide sufficient benefit.
Koite Health brings a clinic-level treatment method into the hands of its customers. The Lumoral device has also recently been recommended by the Finnish Association of Dental Hygienists.
– Lumoral has shown promising results both clinically and at the advanced molecular level, says Nilminie Rathnayake, Specialist Dentist and Training Manager, Periodontology at Aqua Dental.
According to Rathnayake, patients of Aqua Dental clinics have long wished they could improve their everyday dental self-care.
– The fact that we can recommend Lumoral as a complement to oral self-care seems promising, as research results show that Lumoral has helped achieve excellent results.
The new collaboration will enable the Swedish dental chain to improve patients' oral health and satisfaction by giving them the opportunity to take control of their oral health by including Lumoral in their daily dental care at home.
– I believe that this type of daily oral hygiene supplement will mainly help patients with oral diseases such as periodontitis or peri-implantitis. The Aqua Dental chain aims to provide its patients with the best current care for oral diseases. We believe that the partnership agreement with Koite Health is one way of providing our patients with the best possible care.
A differentiating factor for partner clinics
According to Sakari Nikinmaa, CEO of Koite Health, the benefits of the partnership agreement are mutual.
– By working together, we can improve the quality of dental care and give patients the best possible treatment experience and outcomes. Aqua Dental offers its patients a first-class patient experience and level of dental care, which combines perfectly with Lumoral's uniqueness and efficiency, says Nikinmaa.
According to Nikinmaa, the collaboration will be reflected in joint marketing campaigns in Sweden during the autumn to increase the visibility of Lumoral treatment and awareness of its availability at Aqua Dental clinics.
– Our staff will also actively educate the clinic staff on the latest research findings, so that they are aware of the latest technologies and have the best knowledge available to treat patients.
Sakari Nikinmaa, CEO of Koite Health
Niklas Virta, CEO of Aqua Dental, says the new partnership is proof that Aqua Dental is always striving to improve the dental care it offers and wants to be at the forefront of new treatment methods.
– With Lumoral, we hope to help patients with various oral diseases in a modern and effective way. Research and development is close to our heart, and Lumoral is a means to both influence and prevent the inflammatory process. This is in line with our vision to promote oral and general health, says Virta.
– We at Aqua Dental look forward to working together.
Niklas Virta, CEO of Aqua Dental
Helén Huttunen, Product Manager at Koite Health's Stockholm office, is pleased with the new partnership as it is another step towards much needed improvement in dental health in Sweden.
– Many people suffer daily from some form of bacterial infection in their mouths and poor oral health. To succeed in oral health care, we need to change our habits and get better tools. The link between oral health and heart problems or diabetes has serious consequences. That is why daily oral health is so important. Going to the dentist for annual check-ups is also very necessary, says Huttunen.
According to Huttunen, the oral health situation in Sweden is challenging. The same is true in other Nordic countries, where waiting lists for dental services are long and public oral health resources are scarce.
– In northern Sweden, some patients must wait up to six years for treatment. If patients knew about Lumoral, they could treat themselves at home while waiting to see their dentist. In this way, they can reduce the risk of infection and caries and prevent tooth loss. I hope that all dentists will soon know about Lumoral.
Huttunen points out that the ageing population also brings its own challenges in maintaining oral health.
– Dental implants and other dentures place high demands on the patient's own ability to keep their teeth clean, and this becomes more challenging with ageing. Eating and smiling are basic requirements for life! Lumoral brings great help to many people.
Read more
A major gingivitis research in Europe reveals a grim fact: brushing your teeth is not enough – Finnish innovation treats and prevents periodontitis efficiently
Oct 13, 2022 Posted by: Pekka Ruuska Dual Light, Gingivitis, Koite Health, News, PDT, Periodontitis, Photodynamic therapy, Press, Science
The breakthrough study shows that eliminating the bacteria contained in dental plaque should be as vital a part of dental hygiene as brushing your teeth and flossing.
HELSINKI, Finland (October 13, 2022) Europe’s largest periodontitis study is currently being carried out at Metropolia University of Applied Sciences. The first results of the three-year study indicate clearly that using the Lumoral device created by Finnish health tech company Koite Health reduces gingivitis and improves dental hygiene significantly. Lumoral utilizes an efficient antibacterial method developed by Finnish researchers that eliminates disease-causing bacteria from dental plaque.
Periodontitis, a chronic infection caused by bacteria, is a disease that affects as many as 70% of people in Western countries. Periodontitis is the sixth most common disease in the world that can also lead to other conditions such as cardiovascular diseases and diabetes. Infections in the mouth are mainly caused by accumulated dental plaque, that can lead to tartar buildup if not removed properly.
Brushing and flossing isn’t enough – more than half of the participants achieved healthy gums after only three months of antibacterial treatment
The report covering the three-month results has been sent for publishing in a special edition of Dentistry Journal. The report is currently available at Preprints. The study shows that 54 percent (N=59) of participants that used Lumoral were healed from inflammation of the gums based on the BOP(bleeding on probing) index – 2.5 times more than in the control group that didn’t use the device. In the control group, only 22 percent of participants had healthy gums after three months. The participants that used Lumoral had a significantly lower amount of plaque build-up, whereas the control group still had the same amount of plaque left.
”You can only remove half of the plaque by brushing your teeth – it’s no wonder cavities and gingivitis are among the most common diseases in the world. If we want to improve the results of dental care treatments, we need to focus on removing the plaque that is left on the teeth after brushing them”, says Professor Timo Sorsa from the Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Diseases at the University of Helsinki.
“Our hypothesis was correct: because 95 percent of dental diseases are caused by bacteria in the plaque, regularly eliminating dental plaque improves dental hygiene as well as prevents and treats dental and gum disease. The results are exceptional and prove that using Lumoral when treating gum disease makes the treatment a lot more efficient than before”, explains one of the developers of Lumoral, heart surgeon Tommi Pätilä.
Deep gum pockets can store bacteria: Lumoral removes bacteria from where your toothbrush can’t reach
In periodontitis, the advanced gum inflammation caused by plaque and tartar damages the periodontal fibers. This leads to deepening of the gum pockets. As the disease advances, the infection causes a loss of tissue, and ultimately may lead to losing one or more teeth. Periodontitis is prevalent, as up to half of over 50-year-olds suffer from the disease. Taking good care of dental hygiene is important, but in cases of chronic gum disease, the gum pockets need to be regularly cleaned by a professional. However, cleaning gum pockets with traditional methods can be difficult, which leads to more bacteria filling the pockets, thus causing further infections.
“Periodontitis is often asymptomatic for a long time. Unfortunately, pain is often the first motivator to get treated”,Sorsa continues.
The research shows that two out of three (67%) participants that used the Lumoral device were able to reduce the number of deep gum pockets by half compared to the initial situation. Four participants were able to completely eradicate deep gum pockets. The results are significantly better than the participants in the control group.
“We want to permanently improve at-home dental hygiene. Before, advanced gingivitis has only been treated at the dentist, where the waiting lists are long and the treatment might be expensive. Using the Lumoral device combined with proper treatment from professionals reduces the number of infections in the mouth. Without proper at-home care, treatment done by oral health professionals is not as effective as desired, either, so using Lumoral is also beneficial for them. We expect the further results to be even better after the participants have been using Lumoral regularly for six months”, Pätilä concludes.
About the study and Lumoral
In the study carried out at Metropolia University of Applied Sciences, periodontitis is treated with the currently best-known methods that include teaching the participants a proper toothbrushing technique and providing them with new, modern electric toothbrushes. The teeth and gum pockets of all participants are cleaned properly before the study commences. After that, the participants are divided into two groups. One of the groups will use the antibacterial Lumoral method at home and the other group is a control group and won’t use the Lumoral device. The participants’ oral health is checked after three months and again after six months in total.
Both groups consist of 100 participants that already suffer from periodontitis. The research is carried out in groups of 50. In the research, every tooth is measured from six different measuring points. For example, if a participant has 25 teeth, they will have 150 measuring points in total. Bleeding gums are a sign of the periodontitis advancing and causing damage in the mouth.
The Lumoral device combines antibacterial photodynamic treatment (aPDT) with antibacterial blue light (aBL). The Lumoral method is based on the antibacterial “red” PDT-light that promotes oral health and how it activates the light-sensitive Lumorinse mouth rinse, thus creating a reaction that eliminates harmful bacteria from the mouth. There is no similar product on the market, and similar treatment has only been provided at dental clinics.
###
For more information:
Tommi Pätilä
Chair of Board & co-founder
Koite Health
+358 44 013 0770
tommi@koitehealth.com
Media kit with pictures
Koite Health
Koite Health is a Finnish health tech company whose innovation, Lumoral, based on dual-light therapy has revolutionized Finnish preventive dental care. The company's expert team consists of experienced doctors and technology experts. Founders Sakari Nikinmaa and Tommi Pätilä founded Koite Health in September 2018 with the help of the Biodesign project and the commercialization project funded by Business Finland and Aalto University.
Lumoral, developed by the company, is a teeth cleaning device that is used in addition to regular tooth brushing. The device is suitable for everyone, but is especially beneficial for those with cavities or gingivitis. Lumoral has been scientifically developed, and its antibacterial effect is well established. Lumoral is a class II medical and CE approved device, and more than 5,000 units have been sold so far.
Read more
New innovation reduces oral diseases while COVID-19 limits access to dental treatment
May 01, 2022 Posted by: Koite Health Koite Health, News, Photodynamic therapy, Press, Science
Obtaining dental care is more difficult during the current pandemic and this is causing an increase in dental problems such as dental cavity formation and gum disease. Researchers have introduced a home-use method for the reduction and prevention of dental disease.
Brain Surgery | Better Brains Online
Filed under Brain Surgery, depression, medicine, News, prescription drugs by admin on Feb 16th, 2012. Comment. February 2, 2011
Messing Around With The Brain Is Serious Business
It's hard for many who know me to believe – and it is even hard for me to believe – but from a very early age, I loved the brain.
Looking at my professional path, one can see that everything I've done has been related to the brain (with a few side trips, of course). I tell most people now that my change from neurosurgery that ultimately landed me in psychopharmacology was a result of personal maturation. After all, I once believed that most medical problems had mechanical, or near mechanical solutions.
The OBT (Olivier-Bertrand-Tipal) frame -- Conventional stereotaxy makes use of a frame attached to the patient's head. I once believed that a hematoma drained, using squishy squeegie apparatus, just like my mother of blessed memory would have used to baste the Thanksgiving turkey.
The truth of the matter is that I had become convinced slowly that a brain, once touched or handled, changed in immeasurable ways. My own dexterity seemed piteously inferior to the task of brain manipulation. It was not fear — at least I do not think it was. It was more a sort of reverence for the complexity of that which I struggled to lay my hands upon – literally to manipulate. Read more on Messing Around With The Brain Is Serious Business…
MidSouth Pain Treatment Center is your go-to pain relief clinic in Memphis, TN – from interventional therapy to expert surgery, the medical team offers the effective chronic and acute pain treatments you need.
Looking for the best pain management center in Memphis area, Tennessee? This pain management center offers the personalized therapy you need to alleviate your pain, improve your function and mobility, and feel better than ever!
MidSouth Pain Treatment Center, a pain management center based in Memphis area, Tennessee, announced an updated range of treatments for patients suffering from chronic and acute back, neck, and shoulder pain, as well as a variety of other musculoskeletal conditions. The medical center uses a multi-modal approach to create a personalized pain treatment plan adapted to your unique needs and preferences.
Go to https://midsouthpain.com/treat-back-pain-memphis-tennessee to find out more!
The latest announcement aims to provide a flexible and effective pain management solution that incorporates a wide range of validated medical techniques.
All treatments are based on a thorough initial consultation to determine the root cause of your pain and create a custom intervention plan. The expert diagnosticians and medical team ensure that you benefits from an effective therapy program designed to alleviate your pain, improve your mobility, and restore optimal wellness.
The MidSouth pain management center can offer professional treatments for all types of pain, including headaches, back, neck, shoulder, hip and neck pain, nerve blocks, accident injuries and many others. Go to https://midsouthpain.com/back-pain to find out more!
MidSouth Pain has 5 clinics and 2 surgery centers across Tennessee and Mississippi. The clinic has a patient-centered approach and accepts insurance on all chronic and acute pain treatments.
Ready for the high-quality pain management services you need in Tennessee? Click on the links above or go to https://midsouthpain.com for the effective therapy you deserve!
