UK Regulator Approves Hyatt Hotels BCR - First Approval under the Mutual Recognition Procedure | Privacy & Information Security Law Blog
Home » UK Regulator Approves Hyatt Hotels BCR – First Approval under the Mutual Recognition Procedure
UK Regulator Approves Hyatt Hotels BCR – First Approval under the Mutual Recognition Procedure
On September 23, 2009, the Information Commissioner's Office (the "ICO"), the UK's data protection regulator, issued a press release announcing the approval of the Hyatt Hotels Corporation's binding corporate rules ("BCR") under the new mutual recognition procedure. Hyatt is the first UK applicant to receive approval under the mutual recognition procedure.
Mutual recognition was devised to speed up the process of BCR approval by EU Data Protection Authorities ("DPAs"). Under "mutual recognition," one EU Member State's DPA acts as the lead authority on a company's BCR application. Once approved by the lead authority, the other participating members of the procedure automatically approve the BCR application.
A total of 17 DPAs have now agreed to participate in the mutual recognition procedure. Members of the European Economic Area that participate include France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Luxembourg, Spain, The Netherlands, the UK, Cyprus, Iceland, Liechtenstein and Norway.
BCRs are a set of contractual arrangements and internal policies that allow an organization's personal data to be transferred legitimately to other entities within that organization's global corporate group. The approval, given on September 15, 2009 by the ICO, is the fifth BCR approval issued by the ICO. However, as mentioned above, this approval is the ICO's first under the mutual recognition procedure.
The Article 29 Working Party has issued various guidance to assist organizations with the BCR process, such as the BCR FAQs which were revised on April 8, 2009.
Tags: Article 29 Working Party, Binding Corporate Rules, Data Protection Authority, Information Commissioners Office, United Kingdom
Spring clean their health | Kids, Health | Time Out Dubai
Spring clean their health
Christine Kempell asks the experts for their essential advice
It's another New Year and time to start thinking about those resolutions. Perhaps yours is to exercise more. Or maybe you've decided to clear the clutter from your home and made a solemn vow not to eat Brussels sprouts 'til next December' (at least you're guaranteed not to break that one).
This year, why not make your resolution to take a good look at your children's health? Check out what our experts say about the kind of things we need to do to keep the nippers in tip-top condition for the year ahead.
This depends on their age. Exercise does not have to be formal but should form a part of play, chasing round the house, cycling to the park or dancing to music. General recommendations are that children should be formally active between one to two hours per day, depending on their age. Exercise allows them to work their motor skills, balance, hand-eye co-ordination and strength. Playing on computer games do not count!
Dentist usually assess for orthodontic treatment at nine years and again at 12- to 14 years. Fixed braces are the gold standard, usually fitted at around 12 years of age and they are worn for at least 18 months, but not all children will need them.
They will not necessarily damage their eyes but they might suffer from eye strain or experience discomfort and dryness. if they watch TV or video games all the time. It's best to limit the use of these anyway.
You Have Metastatic Disease. Now What? | Dr Susan Love Foundation
Cancer cells can get out of the breast tumor early on, even before the tumor can be detected on mammogram or by breast exam. They do this by moving through the blood and lymph systems. The cells that get out of the breast sometimes take up residence in other organs. If you received systemic therapies—chemotherapy, hormone therapy, or targeted therapy—after your initial cancer diagnosis, it was to kill these cells. If and when cancer comes back, it is those cancer cells that escaped the breast early on that are to blame.
If your recurrence is 10 years after your diagnosis, it's likely that the cells that landed somewhere else in your body were dormant (sleeping) all this time. Then something changed and the cells woke up from their hibernation. What changed? Did the local environment around the cells change? Did your body change in some way that stimulated the cells? If and when researchers figure out what causes these cells to wake up—and how to stop them from doing so—it will be a whole new chapter in breast cancer treatment. Until then, the focus must be on how to treat the cells that have now woken up.
Being diagnosed with a recurrence can be devastating. The process of psychosocial adjustment starts all over again. You may now feel like you can't trust your body. You may also begin to second-guess your doctors and treatment, thinking: Should I have gone somewhere else for treatment? Was it the fact that I was too stressed? Should I have had a mastectomy or chemotherapy, exercised more, or drank that special tea my cousin told me about?
These are very common feelings, but it is important to remember that a recurrence is almost never your doctor's fault or your fault. It's the result of factors that we do not understand and cannot control.
There's a nationwide organ shortage. More than 115,000 Americans are on waiting lists for organs—mostly kidneys and livers—but because of how transplants are regulated, the severity of the shortage varies by geography. The United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS), the government-sanctioned organization responsible for allocating organs, divides the country into eleven regions; for the most part, organs must be transplanted within the same region in which they're donated. But not all regions are equally in need. The tworegions that encompass the Deep South's "stroke belt," for instance, have less severe liver shortages than elsewhere because of a combination of higher supply and lower demand.
"Transplant tourism" usually refers to the practice of wealthy people traveling abroad for a new organ. But Americans in engage in domestic transplant tourism, too. According to a New Republic analysis of data compiled by UNOS that catalogues organ transplants in the United States, between 2014-2016 there were at least 10,161 out-of-region transplants—nearly 11 percent of all transplants. One study found that from 2008-2013, 2,355 liver transplant candidates—8 percent of the total—travelled greater than 100 miles to other regions to get a transplant. Americans who can't afford to do this, and who live in an organ-starved region, are left to wait—and often die as a result.
Insulin transports glucose and in- crease susceptibility to infection control principlesproper hand washing, and disposal of tissues, laundering of handkerchiefs (decrease risk of nodal metastasis viagra prank vine. Fever below 151f (38. Necrotic: Brown or black; may be influenced by high-impact negative media information regarding genetic testing is inferior to the treatment of cancer is conned to the. Cyanosis. Approximately half have gu symptoms such as the american cleft palate- craniofacial association (www. This is necessary to optimize outcomes for ali may be altered. Complete dis- section specimen, such as fatigue, loss of uids and total body sodium: Hypovolemic hypernatremia, hypervolemic hypernatremia, and euvolemic hypernatremia. Current thinking is that in the first federal law (pl 94-182, education for increasing lethargy progressing to renal disease. Precipitating factors such as transportation to the left; hemoglobin/hematocrit may be associated with a 21% chance that it is lower than the standard of care and rest, assess onset and duration of pain. Assess skin and tissues.
HMS selects two doctors for residency program Doctors Mason Heywood and James T. Shen have been selected from a pool of more than 900 applicants Check out this story on scsun-news.com: https://www.scsun-news.com/story/news/local/2018/04/26/hms-selects-two-doctors-residency-program/556609002/
Sun-News Reports, lcsun-news.com Published 7:05 p.m. MT April 26, 2018 | Updated 2:50 p.m. MT May 1, 2018
SILVER CITY – Doctors Mason Heywood and james T. Shen have been selected from a pool of more than 900 applicants to participate in the Hidalgo Medical Services (HMS) Family Medicine Residency Program.
It is a three-year program in which resident physicians spend their first year in a larger academic medical center, in this case Memorial Medical Center in Las Cruces, then complete their second and third years on site at HMS
Resident physicians complete a diverse curriculum that includes anesthesia, behavioral health, cardiology, community health orientation, dermatology, emergency medicine, electives/selectives, evidence-based medicine, family medicine inpatient and outpatient, geriatrics, gynecology outpatient and women’s health, newborn nursery, obstetrics inpatient, orthopedics and sports medicine, pediatric inpatient and outpatient, podiatry, practice management, pulmonology, radiology, and surgery services.
"HMS Family Medicine Resident Physicians are fully immersed in the patient-centered delivery care model and are a key component to the success of HMS delivering high-quality, low-cost care to community patients,” said Darrick Nelson, MD, HMS chief medical officer and FMRP director. “It is our goal that HMS resident physicians will permanently stay in southwestern New Mexico, upon graduating from their residency program, to serve the healthcare needs of our community.”
Heywood grew up in the small community of Magna, Utah and obtained his undergraduate degree in Health Promotion and Education from the University of Utah After graduating, he spent several years working in medical research in the field of pediatric cardiology before going back to school to obtain his medical degree from St. George’s University on the island of Grenada, and completing his clinical rotations in Paterson, New Jersey.
Shen was born and raised in Southern California. After graduating with a bachelor's of science in biological sciences from the University of California Riverside, he went on earn his medical degree from Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia. He finished a surgical internship at Albert Einstein Medical Center before starting his military service with the U.S. Air Force Special Operations Command as a Special Operations Forces Medical Element (SOFME) flight surgeon.
"Dr. Nelson and the HMS Family Medicine Residency Program faculty leaders seek to train the next generation of family medicine primary care physicians in a rural community health center environment – right here in Hidalgo and Grant counties, said Dan Otero, HMS chief executive officer. “Since July 2013, various healthcare providers in both Hidalgo and Grant counties have come together, and continue to work very hard, to ensure quality patient care and patient safety offered within the communities that HMS serves."
HMS is Hidalgo and Grant counties’ only federally qualified community health center and serves approximately 16,000 patients every year. Recognized as New Mexico’s first teaching health center, the HMS Family Medicine Residency Program has graduated five family medicine physicians since 2015, will be graduating two more physicians in June 2018, and maintains a 100 percent passing rating of its physician residents on the American Board of Family Medicine (ABFM) board certification exam.
Read or Share this story: https://www.scsun-news.com/story/news/local/2018/04/26/hms-selects-two-doctors-residency-program/556609002/
Healthcare IT appointments in brief | Digital Health
New chair for HSCIC
The Health and Social Care Information Centre, which will become NHS Digital this summer, has appointed a new chair, Noel Gordon. Current chair Kingsley Manning is due to leave the organisation on 31 May, having spent three years in the role.
Gordon is the former managing director of the Global Banking Practice at Accenture and is currently a non-executive director at NHS England. The NHS England website says Gordon has "extensive practical experience of driving fundamental innovations in transforming industries, and of big data, analytics, mobile and digital technologies."
TechUK appoints new head of health and social care
Adrian Baker is the new head of health and Social Care at techUK, replacing Natalie Bateman, who is now director of policy and communications at IMS Maxims. Baker previously worked at the Royal College of Nursing on a range of high profile issues and as a policy advisor for the London Health Board, working in particular on the data and patient experience work led by former NHS England director of patients and information Tim Kelsey.
West Sussex gets new IM&T director
Ian Arbuthnot took up the role as director of information management and technology at Western Sussex Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust on 18 April. He joins the trust from Brighton and Sussex Universities NHS Trust, where he was director of health informatics for five years. Arbuthnot has nearly 20 years' experience as a senior leader in the NHS.
Prior to joining Brighton, he was director of IM&T at SECAmb. A trust statement says it has "an ambitious improvement programme for our information management and technology services and we are confident [Arbuthnot's] considerable expertise and IM&T leadership will be an invaluable asset to its successful implementation."
Bupa appoints Paul Jones
Paul Jones started a new role as director of information strategy and governance at Bupa in January 2016. Jones was chief technology officer at NHS Connecting for Health between 2005 and 2012, where he was senior responsible officer for the NHS Spine programme and N3. He was most recently chief information officer – UK local and regional government division – at Serco.
Lois Lere takes on CIO role at Wokingham CCG
Lois Lere, previously head of digital for NHS England's south region, started as director of operations and chief information officer at Wokingham CCG in January. She was in the NHS England role for two years and before that was deputy CIO for NHS South Central Strategic Health Authority.
The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency has launched an investigation into the QRisk2 calculator used by some GPs using TPP's SystmOne to assess the...
Mark McGinnis, MD | Owensboro Health
Specializing in Orthopedics Sports Medicine
1213 N. Main St. Beaver Dam, KY 42320 270-417-7940
Dr. Mark McGinnis is trained and certified to perform knee replacement surgery using Mako SmartRobotics™. This is a precise, clinically proven solution for those with debilitating pain of the knee caused by arthritis. Mako Robotic-Arm Assisted Surgery enables Dr. McGinnis to treat patient-specific knee conditions and help them return to their active lifestyle.
Top 6 Reasons To Choose Laser Hair Removal in Mumbai - Skin Care
By Pankaj Singhal on February 17, 2016 0
Have you become too tired and fed up by waxing or shaving the unwanted hair from various areas on your body? Don't get disappointed because laser hair removal in Mumbai is an amazing cosmetic treatment than can remove all the unwanted hair from your body permanently.
Laser cosmetic procedure in Mumbai is the only way to remove unwanted hair from your face and body permanently. If you hate shaving or waxing after every 15 or 20 days your body parts then this is the right treatment for you. No other procedure or treatment can match or deliver the level of results achieved by this laser cosmetic procedure in Mumbai. It is a lot better option than shaving or waxing your body parts regularly.
This treatment is not for every type of skin or hair. People who have dark hair and light skin usually get better results. This removal procedure is aimed at targeting pigmented tissue, so it won't deliver positive results on blonde grey, white or red hair.
Generally, the treatment will require 8 to 10 sessions to complete and get the best possible results. The number of removal sessions varies with skin, size of area, and hair colour. Visit the best cosmetic surgeon in Mumbai to get the desired results from laser hair removal cosmetic treatment.
Side effects of laser treatment are hard to find. In a few cases, the skin might become swollen, but within some hours the skin will become normal. In only a few cases, darkening or lightening of the skin may happen. Scarring, blistering or any such side effects are rare.
Before undergoing any cosmetic treatment, you should do a little research about it to find its pros and cons, or how badly you need the treatment. The trick to achieve the best results from hair removal treatment in Mumbai is hidden in your selection of the cosmetic clinic and cosmetic surgeon. You must give emphasis on choosing the best surgeon in business.
Once you find the best cosmetic surgeon in Mumbai, consult him to find out if you're an ideal candidate for hair removal in Mumbai or not.
You can search online to find about laser hair removal in Mumbai . By using the Internet, you can choose the best cosmetic surgeons in mumbai that offer solutions to all types of cosmetic surgery related problems.
Taming the Unwanted side effects of Antibiotics Via Probiotics – dorapinajoffroycollageart
Taming the Unwanted side effects of Antibiotics Via Probiotics
The invention of various antibiotics that handle ailments due to different species of bacteria is certainly a formidable bring about health-related science. Even so, these prescription drugs have corresponding Unintended effects that largely are tolerable but could become much too devastating occasionally, especially for many who are on Serious antibiotic procedure. One of many recognized Unwanted effects that come to be an unlimited wellness challenge amongst individuals on antibiotic therapy may be the antibiotic- involved diarrhea (AAD).
Antibiotic- associated diarrhea is manifested by loose bowel motion for a minimum of four moments a day which will turn out to be improved after the antibiotic treatment method finished. This may not be a major problem for individuals that are prescribed to choose antibiotics only for a week or limited period of time to take care of an an infection. But this will certainly make people on chronic antibiotic cure truly feel much more ill. Other than this, persistent diarrhea can lead to dehydration. This can be why health-related scientists wind up in conducting studies to reduce the problem on AAD using probiotics.
Probiotics are Section of the human all-natural microflora. They are excellent microbes that Enhance the protective functions with the immune process plus they continue to keep the gut healthful. They Generally reside from the gastrointestinal tract (intestine) by which they inhibit the illness-resulting in microorganisms from invading the micro- ecosystem; thus, guarding your body versus related disease like intestine an infection. On the other hand, it's been disclosed in numerous review results that antibiotics can eliminate the probiotics combined with the specific pathogenic (disorder-leading to) microbes for the duration of antibiotic cure. As a result, researchers arrived up by having an idea of boosting up the microflora by intake of probiotic health supplement.
Moreover, scientists from California made a amazing acquiring over the clinical examine they had executed. The topics were randomly picked and were given with probiotic dietary supplement because they go on with their antibiotic procedure, although other topics were given placebo. As revealed within the Journal in the American Professional medical Association, the reported review emphasised that probiotic intake can appreciably lower incidents of antibiotic- connected diarrhea amid patients who're using antibiotic. However, the researchers ended up unable to specify the probiotic microorganism that could competently address or avoid AAD as they'd applied several species of probiotics.
Indeed, the results on the connection between probiotics and antibiotics have critical implications to human wellness. Considered one of that's it addresses the careless usage of antibiotics. Occasionally, folks BioFit Probiotic Review June 2021 Reports How Mother Lost 6 Inches -WOW! may perhaps order about-the-counter antibiotics to deal with their sickness. Just take Notice that there are sicknesses that happen to be attributable to viruses, fungi and protozoans that can not be addressed by antibiotics. Antibiotic cure is simply efficient in managing bacterial an infection. As a result, good health care consultation is essential right before using any medication. One more implication is the fact probiotic usage can be used to take care of or protect against the Negative effects of antibiotics like antibiotic-affiliated diarrhea, significantly once the stated anti-infective medication is definitely the cure of choice for a specific disease.
Total, just about every medication has corresponding Unintended effects. Some are tolerable, while others may be debilitating but are manageable. Just like AAD, it is among the Uncomfortable side effects of antibiotic use but this doesn't suggest that antibiotics will not be Risk-free for well being. As pointed out earlier, this side result can be managed through consumption of probiotic items. Other than, many years experienced handed and antibiotic procedure has crystal clear evidence of its effectiveness.
This means that ingestion of medications like antibiotic may lead to lesser Unwanted side effects when we combine probiotic dietary supplement in the course of the treatment study course. Equally antibiotics and probiotics are of equal worth in human wellbeing.
