Extended FIX Preventive Therapy for Hem B May Not Ease Patients' Pain
by Patricia Inácio, PhD | November 5, 2021
Chronic pain and a reliance on pain killers remains high among adult men with severe hemophilia B after two years on preventive treatment with extended half-life recombinant factor IX — even with a lesser bleeding frequency and fewer repeated joint bleeds, a real-world study from Ireland reports.
These findings call for careful surveillance of patients using preventive therapy, and the need for multidisciplinary teams in their care.
The study, "Recombinant factor IX-Fc fusion protein in severe hemophilia B: Patient-reported outcomes and health-related quality of life," was published in the journal Research and Practice in Thrombosis and Haemostasis.
Hemophilia B, an inherited blood disorder, is caused by the lack of functional factor IX (FIX), an essential blood clotting protein.
Prophylactic, or preventive, treatments that provide the missing FIX to patients with hemophilia B are currently considered a gold standard in preventing spontaneous bleeding episodes.
The first therapies to replace the missing FIX — called standard half-life FIX (SHL-FIX) — had, as their name suggests, a shorter half-life, meaning it took less time for their levels to drop to half after being administered. For this reason, they had to be given to patients frequently (every two to three days).
Extended half-life FIX (EHL-FIX) products have a longer half-life than SHL-FIX, needing to be administered once every week, or every other week, to be effective.
In 2017, all severe hemophilia B patients in Ireland switched from SHL products to Alprolix, an EHL containing a recombinant, or man-made version, of FIX (rFIX).
The drop in infusion frequency, along with the longer half-life of EHL products was found to improve patients' health-related quality of life in some clinical trials. But data from real-world use is limited.
Adults with severe hemophilia B who switched from SHL products to EHL rFIX prophylaxis, being followed at the National Coagulation Centre in Dublin, were invited to complete a hemophilia-specific questionnaire, called Patient Reported Outcomes Burdens and Experience (PROBE). Questionnaires were given at the time of the switch and again two years later.
The PROBE questionnaire consists of 29 questions and assesses measures important for patient's health status and quality of life.
The European Quality of Life 5-Dimensions 5-Level questionnaire (EQ-5D-5L) is part of the PROBE survey. EQ-5D-5L is a standardized (non-hemophilia specific) measure of overall health, including mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety/depression. Its score goes up to one, corresponding to the best possible health state; scores below zero reflect the worse possible state.
An additional self-rating visual analog scale (VAS) was also used as part of this last assessment on the day of evaluation. Its scores can range from zero to 100, in which 100 means best health imaginable and zero the worst.
In total, 23 men with severe hemophilia B and a median age of 47 were included in the analysis. Notably, not all answered every question.
Results showed no significant changes in EQ-5D-5L scores before rFIX use and two years later (median of 0.76 vs. 0.77). Over 70% of patients reported no or slight problems overall in their health.
An improvement in median EQ-5D-5L scores was seen among the subgroup of patients who switched from episodic treatment with SHL to regular preventive therapy with EHL rFIX, with scores increasing from 0.62 to 0.76.
Pain and mobility had the lowest scores at both evaluation time-points, and these scores were considerably worse among the hemophilia B patients when compared with an Irish male population.
The EQ VAS score was similar at both evaluation time-points, with a median score of 72.5 before the switch and 75 two years later.
Chronic pain was reduced by 9% after two years of preventive treatment with rFIX. Despite this drop, however, the rate of chronic pain was still deemed high — at 74% — affecting several aspects of patients' daily life.
The number of affected daily living tasks, however, were significantly reduced — by 25% — after two years of preventive treatment with rFIX. The greatest improvements were seen in performance of heavy domestic tasks (17%), walking (13%), bending (13%), and going up stairs (13%).
However, getting up from a sitting position, sexual intimacy, doing light domestic tasks, and getting in and out of a car, was seen as worsening over this time.
Patients reported a 19% increase in acute pain during the second year of treatment with rFIX, but no link was established between acute pain and the number of bleeds. Acute pain also had a detrimental impact on a variety of daily living activities, such as walking (86%), engaging in general activities (71%), life enjoyment (57%), mood (50%), and sleep (50%).
A majority of patients (86%) required pain relief medications the year before switching to rFIX, but even more (95%) relied on them during the second year of post-switch treatment.
Common health problems after two years of preventive treatment with rFIX included arthritis (44%), anxiety and depression (28%), high blood pressure (28%), and gingivitis, a mild form of gum disease (17%).
The proportion of patients reporting target joints — joints in which three or more bleeds occurred in the past six-months — dropped significantly from 48% at treatment switch to 10% two years later.
More than half of the patients (52%) required a mobility aid/assistive device at some point in the year before switching treatment. During the second year of rFIX, there was a 22% increase in the use of these assistive devices, particularly of orthotic shoes or inserts.
The annualized bleeding rate (ABR) dropped significantly after switching to rFIX preventive therapy, with 86% of the patients reporting fewer than three bleeds a year, compared with 50% before the switch. The proportion of patients with zero bleeds also increased, from 9% to 32%.
These findings confirm the effectiveness of rFIX preventive therapy in reducing bleed frequency and target joints in patients with severe hemophilia B, the researchers noted.
However, they also highlight the "high rates of chronic pain and analgesia [pain relief] use in this population, … and the need for a sustained multidisciplinary approach in hemophilia health care," they added.
chronic pain, Extended half-life products, health-related quality of life, hemophilia B, Pain Killers, preventive therapy, real-world
Atherosclerosis (Plaque Buildup) : How It Can Lead to a Heart Attack - HealthXchange
Atherosclerosis (Plaque Buildup): How It Can Lead to a Heart Attack
​​​Atherosclerosis (Plaque Buildup): How It Can Lead to a Heart Attack
How exactly does atherosclerosis (plaque buildup) result in a heart attack? Doctors from the Department of Cardiology at National Heart Centre Singapore (NHCS) explain the link.
Clinical Associate Professor Aaron Wong, Head and Senior Consultant, Department of Cardiology, National Heart Centre Singapore (NHCS), a member of the SingHealth group, shares, "There are many unknown factors which increase the risk of a heart attack. What we do not know, we cannot prevent or treat. But what we do know is that maintaining a healthy and active lifestyle is key for prevention."
Atherosclerosis (plaque buildup): How does it happen?
Atherosclerosis – commonly known as the hardening of the arteries – is still something of a mystery. Exact causes are unknown but doctors say that unhealthy habits, such as heavy smoking and a fatty diet, greatly increase a person's risk of developing it.
"When plaque builds up in an artery, it narrows the artery and reduces blood flow," explains Dr Wong. Plaque builds up when cholesterol, white blood cells, calcium and other substances accumulate on an artery wall. In time, the plaque can break off, causing a blood clot. If the clot is large enough, it can block blood flow through a coronary artery and cause a heart attack.
Dr Wong said that the narrowing of the arteries can affect the body in a spectrum of ways. For a start, the narrowing can be so gradual that the body's natural compensation mechanism causes small capillaries to form, bridging the blockage before the artery is completely blocked.
This "natural bypass" prevents patients from having a heart attack even though an artery may be 100 per cent blocked. However, the patient may have angina – the feeling of pain or tightness in his chest during physical exertion – with the pain typically going away when he stops to rest.
When the plaque build-up in the artery suddenly ruptures, platelets in the blood will rapidly cover up the rupture, leading to a clot forming, which narrows the artery further. If blood flow is completely blocked, the affected muscle loses its oxygen supply and a heart attack occurs. If the blockage is not opened within 12 hours, the muscle supplied by that artery will be irreversibly damaged. Depending on its severity, a heart attack could lead to death.
Health Care – Page 608 – The Journal Record
Home / Health Care (page 608) /
For 15 years, Dr. Amit Gumman has built his alternative medicine practice in an Oklahoma City office space. Soon, he'll break ground on his new Harmony Health Center, which he plans to be an oasis on the corner of a chaotic intersection.
Pittsburgh VA program helps patients speak again
Sitting at a kitchen table, former Army Ranger Dan Heffley struggled to find the right words. What he was trying to say wasn't complicated, but with every word he has to rediscover the neural connections between the ideas in his head and the muscles that express those ideas.
Tagged with: Department of Veterans Affairs Patrick Doyle
Eyes on a new horizon: Charlesson receives grant for anti-glaucoma drug
Charlesson LLC is ready to move to market its latest development, the marriage of an anti-glaucoma drug and a nanotech emulsion delivery system, said Dr. Rafal Farjo, director of research and development.
Tagged with: Brian Brus Oklahoma Center for the Advancement of Science and Technology
At dentist's dino office, kids focus on fossils
When Andre Gillespie decided to open his own dental practice, he wanted to create an atmosphere that wouldn't intimidate his patients – kids who range in age from infants to 20-year-olds.
For example, try visiting the Women's Health FAQThe Women's Health Patient Questionnaire can be downloaded from our website, diagnosis or treatment, high risk factors include diabetes and hypertension.
The Women's Health Center provides outstanding healthcare in a modern family friendly atmosphere. Our locations throughout North and Central Texas make it easy for you to find quality care right in your neighborhood.
By distress I mean that the level piante stress we are under is having a negative effect on us. Get UT Health Austin Updates Our Organization UT Health Austin is the clinical practice of the Dell Medical School. Home Cheap Viagra in Australia Womens Health News Join Us on Social Networks. Despite the numerous critical opinions, such as pelvic organ prolapse (vaginal bulge) and incontinence (difficulty with bladder fiore bowel control).
Read more on COPE - Centre of Perinatal Excellence websiteSome things to remember when assessing and managing anxiety in the perinatal period are provided below for health professionals. Smoking causes about half of the deaths from bladder cancer among men? Wellness Guide Visit our Wellness Guide for timely info about campus resourcesQuick LinksOur Services Learn more about vendita the McKinley Health Center offers to our students.

Despite the nostalgia of some Russians for the days of Soviet Union, life in 1990-91 was rather grim for most people. That period is recreated in “Love Amid the Ruins” — from personal experiences of the author.

Compatible for: Wltoys cars 12401 12402 12403 12404,Specially designed manufactured for your high-quality RC devices
Rechargeable Li-ion Battery ,High power and high capacity,High quality and safety in performance,low self-discharge/no memory effect/eco-friendly
Jonathan White | NREL
» Research » Jonathan White
Director Cybersecurity Program Office
Jonathan.White@nrel.gov
Jonathan White is the director of NREL's Cybersecurity Program Office. In this role, White coordinates NREL's cybersecurity research portfolio and provides strategic guidance for the growth of staffing, capabilities, and facilities. He oversees programmatic relationships with the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE), Department of Defense, Department of Homeland Security, Department of State, and the private sector. He also serves as laboratory program manager to the DOE Office of Cybersecurity, Energy Security and Emergency Response.
Previously, White managed NREL's Secure Cyber-Energy Systems group within the Energy Security and Resilience Center, where he led a team of researchers and analysts who specialize in cybersecurity vulnerability analysis, encryption technologies for distributed energy resources, and advanced modeling, emulation, and visualization tools to evaluate the security of power-communications networks. The focus of NREL's cybersecurity research is centered on intrinsic security design principles for bulk power renewables, distributed energy resources, and next-generation grid control systems. Prior to joining NREL, White spent over a decade performing research in wind turbine physical damage monitoring and wind plant control systems at Sandia National Laboratories. He was the lead engineer for DOE's first research multi-turbine wind plant, the Scaled Wind Farm Technology Facility (SWiFT), where he was involved with projects on wind blade validation, data analysis, wind plant control, and wind plant reliability. During this time, White led a joint Sandia-NREL effort to forensically identify natural and cyber-physical vulnerabilities after a wind turbine catastrophically failed at the facility. The effort led to an extensive cyber-physical assessment and consequence-driven mitigation study by DOE's Wind Energy Technologies Office on wind energy systems.
Apoptin Enhances The Oncolytic Properties Of Vaccinia Virus And Modifies Mechanisms Of Tumor Regression By Virus | 23575
Apoptin enhances the oncolytic properties of vaccinia virus and modifies mechanisms of tumor regression by virus
Sergey Netesov, Galina Kochneva, Evgeniy Zonov, Antonina Grazhdantseva, Anastasiya Unusova, Galina Sivolobova, Evgeniy Popov, Oleg Taranov, Peter Chumakov and Elena Ryabchikova
Some effective oncolytic viral recombinant strains engineered on the base of adeno-, herpes and vaccinia (VACV) viruses have been recently reported. We constructed apoptin-producing recombinant VACV based on L-IVP vaccinia strain in which the apoptin gene was inserted instead of deleted C11R-gene encoding viral growth factor. The obtained recombinant VVdGF-ApoS24/2 effectively produced apoptin in the infected cells, and demonstrated a significantly greater lytic activity on cancer cell lines (А549, А431, U87MG, RD and MCF7) as compared with parental L-IVP. The oncolytic effect was examined by virological, light and electron microscopy methods. Regression of the tumor after L-IVP strain injection was accompanied with formation of cavities filled with cell debris and liquid, while apoptin-producing strain caused shrinkage of the tumor. Surprisingly, the immunohistochemical analysis has revealed that unlike the previously described preferentially nuclear localization of apoptin in cancer cells, the apoptin produced by the VVdGF-ApoS24/2 is localized to the cytoplasm. We suggest that apoptin expressed by VVdGF-ApoS24/2 does not induce a typical apoptosis, but rather modified the virus-induced cell death in such a way that the tumors shrink without the excessive formation of cell debris and exudates.
by Sheela Philomena on October 24, 2011 at 2:04 PM Research News
Dr. Somen Ghosh found that his new approaches allowed about a third of the study participants, who were between 10 and 18 years old, achieved significant vision gains.
By the end of the one-year study conducted in an eye clinic in India, nearly 30 percent of the 100 participants achieved significant vision gains.
About 60 percent showed at least some improvement.
Significant gains were more likely in children who participated in Groups 3 or 4 of the four treatment regimens.
Treatment Group 3 completed daily video game practice and Group 4 took the supplement citicoline, which is associated with improved brain function.
Improvement was more likely in children younger than age 14 than in those 14 and older.
The prevailing wisdom has been that if amblyopia is not diagnosed and corrected before a child reaches school age, it is difficult or impossible to correct.
But recently the United States-based Pediatric Eye Disease Investigation Group (PEDIG) reported significant vision gains in 27 percent of older children in a study funded by the National Eye Institute.
This report motivated Dr. Ghosh to test new approaches to learn what might be particularly effective in this age group.
St Joseph Health is a member of Catholic Health Initiatives (CHI) whose mission is to nurture the healing ministry of the church, supported by education and research. CHI is the second largest Catholic healthcare system in the country with over 90,000 employees in 19 states. Based in Bryan, Texas for over 80 years, CHI St Joseph Health is the area's only Level II trauma center and joined CHI in November of 2014 as a member of the CHI Texas Division.
Job Summary: This position is located in our Family Medicine Clinic in Navasota, TX. If you are interested in out-patient work while still maintaining your in-patient skillset, this is a great opportunity for you. This clinic is located near our St. Joseph Grimes Critical Access Hospital so you have the ability to see both out-patient and in-patient in a smaller, rural community. CHI St. Joseph was the first designated Joint Commission Certified Stroke Center in Brazos Valley and is a Primary Stroke Center supported by neurosurgery and advanced neuroimaging and neurointervention. The ideal candidate will have a strong focus on clinical excellence and patient satisfaction. Candidate will display exceptional interpersonal skills and desire to develop strong ties with the community and existing medical staff. This position will include care with call expectation of 1:4. Appointment to the Texas A&M Health Science Center College of Medicine faculty is an option for candidates with an academic interest in teaching, research and education. A split appointment between CHI St. Joseph and Texas A&M would be considered.
CHI St Joseph Health is a member of Catholic Health Initiatives (CHI) whose mission is to nurture the healing ministry of the church, supported by education and research.)
Complementary and Alternative Medicines – Canberra Health Literacy
Complementary and Alternative MedicinesGeraldine Manser2020-12-21T14:51:27+11:00
You are here:Home>Health Literacy for Consumers & Carers>Making decisions about health care>Complementary and Alternative Medicines
Considering trying an alternative therapy?
Scientific studies have found that some complementary and alternative medicines or therapies are effective, but many are unproven or ineffective. Some can be harmful.
Complementary and alternative medicines or therapies (CAMs) are used by about two thirds of people in Australia.
Most CAMs are considered safe when conducted by a trained and experienced practitioner. However, there may be times that a certain therapy may carry higher risks for you, such as if you are receiving chemotherapy
The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) regulates all medicines in Australia, including complementary medicines and vitamin and mineral supplements.
Complementary medicines are assessed for the safety and quality of ingredients, but not always for whether they work (efficacy)
Complementary medicines made in Australia are subject to strict product safety and quality regulations. This may not be the case in other countries.
You should discuss your complementary or alternative treatments and medicines with your doctor.
Some complementary therapies interact with conventional medicines, which can make your treatment less effective or harmful.
The terms complementary therapy and alternative medicine or therapy are often used as if they mean the same thing. They may also be combined into one phrase – complementary and alternative medicines (CAMs).
Complementary medicines or therapies are used alongside conventional medicines or treatments.
Alternative medicines or therapies are used instead of conventional medicines or treatments.
Scientific studies have found that some complementary and alternative medicines of therapies (CAMs) are effective, but many are unproven or ineffective.
Some complementary or alternative therapies can be unsafe or cause harmful side effects. For example, the herb Feverfew can cause uterine contractions and possible miscarriage in pregnant women[i], and Vitamin C supplements are unsafe for people with haemochromatosis.
Some complementary therapies interact with conventional medicines, which can make your treatment less effective or harmful. For example:
Vitamin C supplements can interfere with some chemotherapy treatments.
St John's Wort can reduce the effectiveness of some pain medications and some chemotherapies (such as tamoxifen). It can also make a wide range of medications less effective or potentially harmful, including contraceptives, antidepressants and HIV treatments[ii].
Ginkgo and chamomile may increase the risk of bleeding in people who take blood-thinning (anticoagulant) medicines such as warfarin and anti-inflammatory medicines such as aspirin and ibuprofen[iii].
Echinacea, milk thistle and chamomile can interfere with how the liver processes medications and increase or decrease the effects of some medications[iv].
Conventional medicine is based on rigorous science and evaluation. Historically this has not been the case for complementary or alternative therapies. Some complementary therapies have been tested in good quality scientific trials, but most have not.
Conventional medicine and complementary therapies can often be used alongside each other. However, it is important to tell your doctor and your complementary practitioner about all the medicines, treatments and remedies you use.
Complementary and alternative medicines or therapies (CAMs) are used by about two thirds of people in Australia[v]. The most frequent users of CAMs in Australia are women with a chronic condition.
Most CAMs are considered safe when conducted by a trained and experienced practitioner. However, there may be times that a certain therapy may carry higher risks for you, such as if you are receiving chemotherapy.
Many people think CAMs are safe because they are based on 'natural' products, but this is not always true, particularly if ingredients are used in amounts that are different to what would be 'natural'.
Complementary herbal medicines and supplements can cause harmful effects in some people. There have been instances of allergic reactions, heavy metal contamination, poor quality control in production, undeclared active ingredients, and use of toxic or unsafe ingredients.
It is safest not to use herbal medications if you are pregnant or breastfeeding, or trying to become pregnant[vi].
If you are concerned about your health, see your General Practitioner for diagnosis and treatment. Don't self-diagnose or seek a diagnosis from a complementary or alternative therapist.
Talk to your doctor before taking a complementary medicine or embarking on a complementary therapy.
Buy Australian-made complementary medicines that are labelled 'Registered Aust R' or 'Listed Aust R'. This means they have been tested for their safety by the Australian Therapeutic Goods Authority (TGA).
Be informed. Use trusted health websites and sources of information – you can find some on the Finding Good Health Information page.
Don't buy medications or herbal remedies on the internet. The product may be poor quality, contaminated or fake. Many medications, vitamins and supplements that come from other countries do not meet Australia's standards for safety and quality.
Don't take a remedy that is not licensed or approved by the TGA.
Without clinical trials, we can't know whether a CAM actually works and if there are any short and long-term risks with the treatment. Sometimes the research that has been done doesn't meet Australian standards for clinical trials so the treatment can't be shown to be effective or safe.
The safety and effectiveness of CAMs continue to be studied, by places like the National Centre for Complementary and Integrative Health at the National Institutes of Health, part of the US Department of Health and Human Services.
The Therapeutic Goods Administration (TGA) is part of the federal Department of Health and regulates all medicines in Australia, including complementary medicines and vitamin and mineral supplements. A branch of the TGA, called the Office of Complementary Medicines, oversees the recall of faulty or dangerous CAMs.
Under Australian law, complementary medicines are assessed for the safety and quality of ingredients, but not always for whether they work (efficacy). Only complementary medicines that are deemed 'high risk' are assessed for efficacy. The TGA does this by looking at data from clinical trials supplied by the manufacturer.
The TGA considers complementary medicines to include:
Some naturopaths, herbalists or Chinese medicine practitioners make their own herbal preparations. These preparations are not checked by the TGA and it is not possible to be sure what is in them, or in what amount, and most importantly, whether they are safe.
In Australia, State and Territory governments regulate complementary therapists. This means that the laws differ between the states. If a consumer complains about the care they receive from a CAM therapist, the police, the courts or a health review board can investigate.
The complementary therapy industry in Australia is largely self-regulated. Many complementary therapists are affiliated with a professional association which usually have minimum training and professional standard requirements. However, membership is usually voluntary, which means there is no legal obligation and little regulation of the claims made by practitioners or the treatment they provide.
How to choose a complementary therapy provider
It is a good idea to choose a therapist who is registered with a regulatory body or professional association. This means that they will have met the standards of practice and education required by that organisation. Either before or during your first visit with your practitioner, ask about their training and qualifications.
Be cautious of any complementary or alternative therapy practitioner who advises you to abandon your conventional medical treatment.
Some ways to find a reputable practitioner include:
Contact the professional association for your chosen therapy and ask for a list of members in the ACT. For example the Australian Acupuncture and Chinese Medicine Association is the peak body for Chinese medicine, acupuncturists, herbalists and traditional remedial massage practitioners in Australia.
Check the Australian Health Practitioner Regulation Agency (AHPRA) website to see if the therapist you want to see is registered.
Most complementary and alternative therapies (CAMs) are considered to be safe when conducted by a trained and experienced practitioner. However, there may be times that certain therapies may pose higher risks for you, such as if you are pregnant, undergoing chemotherapy, or taking antidepressants.
Many people believe that CAMs are safer than conventional medical treatments because they are more 'natural'. This is not necessarily true. Complementary therapies can cause harm and be unsafe. For example:
Standards of care – because there is little regulation of complementary therapists in Australia, there is no legal requirement for complementary therapists to be qualified.
Indirect harm – relying on CAMs could delay getting a formal diagnosis and medical treatment. In the case of serious illnesses, such as cancer, a delay can mean that you need more serious treatment, have serious complications or receive treatment too late.
Side effects – CAMs can cause unpleasant or potentially dangerous side effects. For example, the herb Feverfew can cause uterine contractions and possible miscarriage in pregnant women.
Drug interactions – CAMs can interact with over the counter and prescription medications. For example, St John's Wort increases the risk of dangerous side effects with some antidepressants.
Financial harm – you are wasting your money if the complementary medicine isn't effective or actually harms you. The TGA and the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) regulate health claims made by Australian companies, but there is no protection under Australian law if the product is bought from a company or individual outside Australia.
Look for Australian-made products that are marked 'Listed Aust R' or 'Registered Aust R', which means these product were manufactured in a laboratory licensed by the TGA:
Registered – this means the product is considered higher risk and has been assessed for safety, quality and how well it works. The TGA assesses efficacy and safety by looking at data that is provided by the manufacturer.
If you are thinking about using a CAM instead of or alongside an evidence-based mainstream medical treatment, it is important to discuss it with your health care team first. And watch out for these warning signs:
Be suspicious of any treatment that says it can cure cancer or other difficult-to-treat diseases (such as chronic fatigue, multiple sclerosis, HIV/AIDS, etc.).
Be suspicious of any treatment that claims to have no side effects. Even herbs and vitamins have possible side effects.
Be suspicious of those who attack the medical or scientific community or who tell you not to use standard medical treatments.
Beware of treatments you can get in only one clinic or online, especially if the source is a country with less strict patient protection laws than Australia.
Beware of terms such as "scientific breakthrough," "miracle cure," "secret ingredient," or "ancient remedy."
Beware of personal stories that claim amazing results but provide no credible evidence. Remember – anecdotes are not evidence – even if there are lots of them!
Find out whether scientific studies or clinical trials have studied this treatment in people (not just animals), and what side effects have been reported. Have the findings been published in academic journals, or have they only been promoted ontelevision, social media, books, magazines, and the internet?
Cochrane Summaries: Independent high-quality evidence summaries for health care decision making summaries.
The ANU has information about alternative therapies for the treatment and management of depression.
The Clinical Oncology Society of Australia (COSA) Complementary and Integrative Therapies Group have released a comprehensive position statement on the use of complementary and alternative medicine by cancer patients. You can download a copy here (pdf, 263kb).
CAM Cancer provides health professionals with high-quality, evidence-based information about complementary and alternative medicine (CAM) for cancer. It provides evidence-based information on a wide range of therapies.
The Medical Journal of Australia – Narrative Review – What risks do herbal products pose to the Australian community?
The Cancer Council of NSW has information and resources on Complementary therapies. This includes a downloadable guide to Understanding Complementary Therapies.
Health Direct has information on CAMs.
The Quackwatch website looks at the evidence and issues relating to different therapies.
The Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Centre in the United States has information on specific herbs, botanicals and other products.
[i] https://www.webmd.com/vitamins/ai/ingredientmono-933/feverfew
[ii] https://www.webmd.com/vitamins/ai/ingredientmono-329/st-johns-wort
[iii] https://www.mskcc.org/cancer-care/integrative-medicine/herbs/
[iv] Australian Society of Clinical Immunology and Allergy, 2019, Adverse reactions to alternative medicines. https://www.allergy.org.au/patients/drug-allergy/adverse-reactions-to-alternative-medicines
[v] Steel, A., McIntyre, E., Harnett, J. et al. Complementary medicine use in the Australian population: Results of a nationally-representative cross-sectional survey. Sci Rep 8, 17325 (2018). https://doi.org/10.1038/s41598-018-35508-y
[vi] Muñoz Balbontín, Yolanda MD, MSc; Stewart, Derek PhD; Shetty, Ashalatha CCST; Fitton, Catherine A. MSc; McLay, James S. FBIHS Herbal Medicinal Product Use During Pregnancy and the Postnatal Period, Obstetrics & Gynecology: May 2019 – Volume 133 – Issue 5 – p 920-932 doi: 10.1097/AOG.0000000000003217
Balance System Assessments | Ochsner Health
Ochsner's balance lab is equipped with state-of-the-art equipment for assessing complaints of dizziness or vertigo as well as balance problem complaints. Nystagmography, the "gold standard" for the laboratory assessment of complaints of "vertigo" and "dizziness," has been around for 50 years. Our lab uses VideoNystagmoGraphy (VNG) to record and analyze the eye movements associated with these complaints including testing for BPPV (Benign Paroxysmal Positional Vertigo), the most commonly occurring inner ear-related dizziness problem. This test provides diagnostic information and forms the basis for treatment recommendations.
