To provide a framework for discussion and examples of practical approaches to cultural competence, this report evaluates current definitions of cultural competence, identifies models of culturally competent care, and provides recommendations for implementing culturally competent interventions to improve the quality of health care.
Tagged: Organizational Cultural Competence, Patient Education and Support, Report, Workforce Diversity, Organizational Assessments and Measurement, Organizational Plans Policies and Management Strategies, Culturally Competent Care, Publication
Comprehensive Framework and Preferred Practices for Measuring and Reporting Cultural Competency
This report aims to promote culturally competent care, to reduce disparities, and to make care more patient centered. It does so by endorsing a comprehensive framework for measuring and reporting cultural competency. It also endorses a set of 45 preferred practices to provide culturally competent care. The framework is intended for all healthcare organizations.
Tagged: Organizational Cultural Competence, patient satisfaction, Report, Organizational Assessments and Measurement, Organizational Plans Policies and Management Strategies, Publication
The Health Literacy of America's Adults is the first release of the National Assessment of Adult Literacy (NAAL) health literacy results. The results are based on assessment tasks designed specifically to measure the health literacy of adults living in the United States. Health literacy was reported using four performance levels: Below Basic, Basic, Intermediate, and Proficient.
Tagged: Report, Study Findings, Health Literacy, Publication, Research & Evaluation, Language Access, Research
THERAPIST (LICENSED) - (111354) at Universal Health Services in Bradenton, FL 34205 | CareerCast Diversity Network Careercast.com Diversity Network
THERAPIST (LICENSED) - (111354)
The Hospital is looking for a Licensed Therapist who would be responsible for conducting therapeutic services for patients. They provide counseling sessions for families, individuals and groups. Therapists are responsible for interviewing and developing the psychological history, assessing the therapeutic needs of the individual and family, developing appropriate treatment objectives and monthly treatment summaries. Therapists act as the patients and families primary contact during the patients stay at the facility, as well as their advocate with the treatment team. Therapists are also liaisons with outside agencies and individuals for the purpose of developing and coordinating discharge planning with the treatment team and family.
Education: Masters Degree from an accredited college or university in social work, mental health counseling.
Experience: One (1) year direct clinical experience specific to family, individual and group therapy with children and/or adolescents. For specialized issues or treatment modalities, training must be specific to these; abuse reactive, sexual offending, substance abuse, sexual trauma, vocational, play therapy, art therapy and relaxation therapy. Must have knowledge of human development over the life span.
License/Certification: Current license from the State of Florida, such as LCSW, LMFT, LMHC, LMFTI or LMHCI required.
Physical Requirements: Work is mentally demanding. Extensive walking, standing and sitting. Must be able to participate in the physical restraint and seclusion of patients. Must be able to participate in and complete Handle With Care Training on an annual basis.
Mortality rates higher for heart disease patients in poorer B.C. nei... (	Heart disease patients living in poo...)
...Heart disease patients living in poorer areas of B.C. are up to twice ...The research released this week in the online journal Public Libra... Even in a country with universal healthcare services a neighbourhood...This trend may reflect the higher overall stress experienced by patien...
1. Birthing Project USA Unites to Reduce the African-American Infant Mortality Rate: Pilgrimage to Babyland
2. Cancer Mortality Increases With Cancer Cell Replikin Count
4. Dual treatment for stroke leads to improved recovery rates, reduced mortality
5. Poverty Raises Mortality Risk With Non-Hodgkin Lymphoma
6. Senators Cochran (R-MS), Boxer (D-CA), Brownback (R-KS) and Vitter (R-LA) Add Their Support to Lung Cancer Mortality Reduction Act
MARLBOROUGH, Mass.--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Advanced Cell Technology, Inc. ("ACT", OTCBB: ACTC or the "Company"), a leader in the field of regenerative medicine, today announced fourth quarter and year-end financial results for the period ended December 31, 2012.
Completed second patient cohort in all three clinical trials in the U.S. and Europe to treat Stargardt's Macular Dystrophy (SMD) and dry Age Related Macular Degeneration (AMD), effectively reaching the halfway point of all three groundbreaking clinical trials.
ACT's Induced Pluripotent Stem (iPS) Cell-Derived Human Platelet program chosen by New Scientist Magazine as one of "10 ideas that will shape the year."
"2012 represented a transformative year for ACT both clinically and through favorable corporate developments," said Gary Rabin, chairman and CEO of ACT. "The Company announced promising data from its most advanced clinical programs in AMD and SMD, and has made solid progress in bringing each of these programs through the clinical trials. ACT has also been able to remove many of the impediments to achieving a listing of its stock on a National Exchange, by eliminating significant contingent liabilities through resolution of outstanding litigation. We believe the Company is now well positioned to achieve both its clinical and corporate objectives in 2013."
The Company had $466,487 in revenue in 2012 as compared to $506,419 in 2011. Research and Development expenses in 2012 were $11.0 million, up from $10.0 million in 2011 primarily as a result of an increase in clinical trial expenses. The Company reported a loss from operations of $(21.1) million in 2012, compared to 2011's loss from operations of $(21.1) million. ACT reported a net loss of $(28.5) million or $(0.01) loss per share compared to a net loss of $(72.8) million or $(0.05) loss per share in the same period a year ago.
Make Sure You See the Emergency Dentist in Cedar Grove When Tooth Pain Strikes | websnep
Make Sure You See the Emergency Dentist in Cedar Grove When Tooth Pain Strikes
Tooth pain is one of the most difficult types to rid yourself of because the nerve is right in your tooth and causing throbbing discomfort. Often, people try a myriad of remedies for their tooth pain, including taking over-the-counter pain medications, using pain gels and even placing aspirin on their teeth. While some of these methods can help relieve a portion of your pain, some can prove damaging.
Most people are never able to fully rid themselves of the pain and continue to suffer. This is why it is imperative you see the Emergency Dentist in Cedar Grove when tooth pain strikes. The emergency dentist can find the cause of your pain, treat it and stop it. This can give you the relief a bottle of pills cannot.
If you are suffering of tooth pain, it is imperative to find what is causing it. Tooth pain is commonly caused by cavities. Cavities do not exhibit symptoms right away. As the decay progresses into the tooth, the nerve becomes irritated and even inflamed. As swelling and pressure increase, the tooth can begin to cause you serious pain. If the decay is allowed to continue, it can cause permanent damage and even tooth death. The Emergency Dentist will X-ray your tooth and examine it, to see how deep the decay runs. The tooth will then be treated, by removing the decayed areas and filling it. This protects your tooth from further damage and effectively stops the pain you were feeling.
Another cause of severe tooth pain is infection. Infections can be serious and spread to your other teeth and even your gum tissue. The symptoms of tooth infections, also called abscesses, can be swelling and redness around the tooth, severe pain, swelling in the jaw, foul odors coming from the mouth, pus drainage and bleeding around the tooth and fever. If you are experiencing any of these signs, you need to see the Emergency Dentist in Cedar Grove right away. Your tooth will need a root canal performed and you will need to have antibiotic therapy, so the infection can be cleared.
If you are in need of general of Cosmetic Dentistry services, visit http://littlefallsfamilydental.com/ . They will provide you and your family with the best in dental care, to help ensure your smiles stay healthy, strong and beautiful.
Advanced brain mapping technology called MEG debuts at Beaumont Health | Beaumont Health
7/12/2021 2:47:06 PM Reporting from Detroit,MI
https://www.beaumont.org/health-wellness/press-releases/advanced-brain-mapping-technology-called-meg-debuts-at-beaumont-health
7/12/2021 2:47:06 PM
Epileptologists and neurosurgeons at Beaumont, Royal Oak, have another hi-tech tool to diagnose and treat epilepsy and brain tumors.
World's most advanced neuroimaging benefits patients with epilepsy
Epileptologists and neurosurgeons at Beaumont Hospital, Royal Oak, now have another hi-tech tool to diagnose and treat epilepsy and brain tumors called MEG.
Beaumont specialists recently began using one of the world's most advanced neuroimaging technologies for mapping the brain of children and adults. The imaging is called magnetoencephalography, also known as MEG. The noninvasive technique measures and produces images of brain activity and function. It is used in diagnosing and pre-surgical planning for epilepsy and brain tumors.
"It's a more comprehensive way of looking at the brain," said Dr. Andrew Zillgitt, director, Beaumont's Level 4 Adult Epilepsy program and director of the Beaumont MEG program. "As medical technology continues to evolve, our new MEG system is another critical tool for diagnosing and treating epilepsy. MEG provides us more information, helping us decide whether surgery is a viable option and, if so, how to do the surgery in the safest manner possible for each individual patient."
Dr. Daniel Arndt, chief, Pediatric Neurology and director, Pediatric Epilepsy Program, Beaumont, Royal Oak, added, "We're pleased to be one of only three health systems in Michigan with MEG technology. This is huge for our patients and enhances the capabilities of our Level 4 pediatric epilepsy program."
Dr. Zillgitt said, "It's not new technology, but it is underutilized and still not widely available. There has been a lot of developments in MEG technology the past 20 years. Today's systems are more advanced with user-friendly software."
Dr. Arndt said, "We can learn so much about a patient's brain activity, specifically where motor, hearing, vision, sensory and language functions are located, all without surgery. Its ability to localize the origin of seizures helps us plan the placement of depth electrodes in the brain using ROSA robot technology in stereo-EEG evaluations for pediatric and adult epilepsy surgery candidates. From a parent's or child's perspective, the experience of getting a MEG scan is quiet, and unlike with MRIs, you're not enclosed or confined, but out in the open. Importantly, just like MRI, the MEG is magnet-based technology, so there is no radiation exposure."
Ongoing research with MEG involves other neurological conditions such as Alzheimer's disease, dementia, autism, PTSD, depression, traumatic brain injury and ADHD.
Epilepsy is one of the most common neurological disorders. Abnormal electrical activity in the brain causes the disorder. Nearly 109,000 Michigan residents have epilepsy, including 13,600 children.One-third have drug-resistant epilepsy. For those, surgery may be a treatment option.
Tips for writing an effective research paper Essay Academic Writing Service hapaperzoxh.tiami.us
Writing a research paper with innovative and groundbreaking findings might be a difficult task in itself, but a carefully formulated title is also just. 8 tips on writing an outstanding homework or test essay order a custom essay or research paper developed from scratch from the experienced authors and. A big research paper can be overwhelming at first this chart and the first key to writing a good research paper is starting early there are a. A research paper is basically a type of academic writing that should have theoretical and significant data that has gone through proper in-depth. Research paper sources can be difficult to find use these six tips to find great 120+ students to write a 10 page research paper, how many do you have to read here are six quick tips that will help you do fast, effective research, and find.
As an early career researcher, writing your first few papers in a scientific journal can seem like a daunting task how do you balance writing for. Writing a convincing title for a research paper is challenging without a good title, the research paper would not attract readers a title is made up of a few words. While some may differ slightly in minor areas, the apa style is the accepted format for publication here are some writing tips for apa-style research papers. Tip: you can't write a good introduction until you know what the body of the paper says consider writing the introductory section(s) after you.
Wondering how to start your future masterpiece research paper let's find out how to start your essay in the most effective way. Get expert pointers on writing a research paper title visit editage insights for more editorial tips. Tips for writing research paper start your research a couple of hints: it's a good idea to talk to one of the reference librarians about where and how to start.
With the tips below, you'll be able to research and write a good—and possibly great—paper make a schedule if your instructor or professor has not already. Bibliography: a research paper requires research, ie finding the relevant primary on the development of the argument, and to re-order it in the most effective,. So here are 8 tips i use to write a research paper from start to finish 1 create an outline this tip would be kind of obvious, but i am far from. How to write an effective research structure of a scientific paper disclaimer: the suggestions and remarks in this presentation are based on. Thumbnail image: tips for writing better science papers: what happens next 2) hypothesis – is there a good reason for doing this work does it show that this paper makes an impact in the particular field of research.
Explaining scientific principles in simple and understandable language is a valuable skill insider tips on taking care of what you write. Tips on article writing: 7 powerful research paper writing tips research paper tips a good thesis statement should be broad enough to give you room to. Tips for better writing: how to get started on that research paper be: a good topic should be something that the writer is interested in and.
How to write good research papers: top 10 tips from reddit another post before specifically about strategies to write a good introduction. The title is definitely the part of a paper that is read the most, and it is usually read first writing a research paper title may seem a simple task. Our research paper writing tips will make writing a research paper easy with actually, if you have a good research proposal, it means that you are going to.
I've always found "how to write a research paper" guides to be underwhelming, since they're usually so general and high-level that they're. Students suffer when they write badly because they get bad grades the writing principles outlined here should help. Formal writing is used in academic and scientific settings whenever you for an effective essay or article is to: (1) present a coherent thesis in. In this article, we present 10 tips for writing an effective introduction in the first paragraph, briefly describe the broad research area and then.
6:42 p.m. ET, May 29, 2020
They reviewed 30 different drugs being tried out, including drugs designed to stop the virus from getting into cells, such as already-approved blood pressure drugs; drugs aimed at stopping the virus from replicating, such as the immune suppressors sirolimus and the antiparasitic drug ivermectin; drugs that control the immune system response, such as type 1 interferon; and drugs meant to block the overwrought inflammatory response to the virus, which include some rheumatoid arthritis drugs.
No drug is approved to specifically treat coronavirus infections although the FDA has given emergency use authorization to the antiviral drug remdesivir.
6:05 p.m. ET, May 29, 2020
Louisiana governor reports "big dip" in number of people hospitalized
The number of people hospitalized with Covid-19 took a "big dip" Friday, Louisiana Gov. John Bel Edwards said in during a news conference.
"We do have some information for you, and that information is actually rather positive. The number of people hospitalized with Covid-19 actually took a big dip over the last 24 hours, down to 714," he said. "Several weeks ago, we were well over 2000."
Additionally, the state has less than 100 people on ventilators for the first time since March 23, the governor said.
He did not give an update on the number of coronavirus cases today because of "technical issues."
The Louisiana Department of Health posted on its website: "Due to network technical issues, case and testing data could not be updated today. The data on deaths and hospitalization have not been impacted. Once resolved, LDH will update at the next noon update."
5:59 p.m. ET, May 29, 2020
Trump says US has conducted more than 15 million tests
President Trump said the US has now conducted more than 15 million Covid-19 tests.
The President then teased an announcement on new tests for tomorrow.
"We're gonna give you a big report on testing tomorrow. We have new tests coming out that are above and beyond anything that anybody would have thought even possible just a couple of months ago," Trump said.
Trump said certain places have more tests available than people seeking them. He mentioned Florida as an example.
Diabetes type 1 I DON Foundation
What is it that goes wrong inside the body?
Diabetes type 1 is an auto-immune disease. Due to an error in the immune system, the cells that produce insulin (beta cells in the Islets of Langerhans in the pancreas) are destroyed. As a result the beta cells produce no or hardly any insulin. It is still not completely clear what the precise cause of diabetes type 1 is. Genetic susceptibility plays a (relatively small) role and probably also environmental factors, such as diet and infections. Diabetes type 1 can arise at any age, but usually occurs among children and young adults. Because insufficient insulin is produced, people with diabetes type 1 must inject insulin daily.
Food and drinks supply carbohydrates to the body. These carbohydrates are turned into glucose in the small intestine. The cells in the body need this glucose as a source of energy. Insulin is made in the Islet of Langerhans of the pancreas and is delivered to the blood. Insulin ensures that the glucose can be absorbed easily by the body cells; it basically opens the door of the cell, so the glucose can enter. That is why it is important that sufficient insulin is available to process the glucose in food.
There are various signals that may point to diabetes type 1. Symptoms of diabetes type 1 are as follows:
A lot of thirst and much peeing, losing weight while having a healthy appetite, weakness/muscle pain, very tired and/or irritable, being nauseous or vomiting and blurry vision.
It is important to quickly visit the physician if you recognize many symptoms. The physician can use a blood test to determine whether or not it is diabetes type 1.
A hypo is short for a hypoglycaemia or, in other words, low levels of blood sugar. If there is insufficient glucose present in the blood (less than 3mmil/l), people have a so-called hypo. The symptoms are shaking, sweating, headache, dizziness, decreased concentration, fatigue, hunger and high irritability. Someone with a very serious hypo can even lose consciousness.
A hyper is short for hyperglycaemia or, in other words, high levels of blood sugar. Frequent urination, serious thirst, fatigue and a dry tongue are symptoms if someone has high glucose levels for an extended time. Even a coma is possible. If the blood sugar is too high often, then there is a higher chance of complications of diabetes on the long term.
Diabetes can have destructive effects on many important areas of the body, but especially on the large blood vessels, kidneys, eyes and nerves. On the long term, this can lead to complications such as blindness and cardiovascular disorders.
Treatment aims to normalize the blood glucose level as much as possible and thereby reduce the risk of serious complications. The aim is to administer the right amount of insulin or hypoglycaemic tablets in changing conditions, and to correctly balance diet and exercise.
Diabetes is one of the most common chronic diseases in children and teenagers. And the rapid increase in diabetes among children is alarming. More and more children are developing diabetes at an increasingly younger age. Between 1988 and 1990, it was at 9.2 years of age, now it is 7.6. Due to the younger age, there is also more risk of complications because of longer lifetime exposure to diabetes.
There has been much research into diabetes. However, more is invested in making everyday life more comfortable for patients. The DON Foundation supports, and is actively in search of, ground-breaking research, with the aim of finding a complete cure for diabetes type 1. Every day we work hard to achieve this aim, but we have not yet found the solution.
Facts and figures diabetes type 1
In The Netherlands, 100,000 people have diabetes type 1
About 12,000 children until the age of 20 have diabetes type 1
Diabetes type 1 cannot be cured. Diabetes type 1 is a chronic disease for which a cure still has not been found. The closest thing to curing it is transplanting the pancreas or the insulin-producing beta cells. But only a very small amount of patients are eligible for this. If you have diabetes type 1, you can have sugar. Diabetes may be commonly called 'sugar disease' in Dutch, but this does not mean that people with diabetes type 1 cannot have any sugar at all. Diabetes type 1 is unrelated to overweight. Even the thinnest people can get diabetes type 1. People with diabetes type 1 have high odds of complications. Diabetes can have a destructive effect on the body, especially on the large blood vessels, kidneys, eyes and nerves. The chances of complications increase the longer people have the disease. World Diabetes Day. Every year on November 14, World Diabetes Day is celebrated on the occasion of the birthday of Frederick Banting who, in 1922, together with Charles Best, formed the basis for the discovery of Insulin.
Southcentral KCTCS emergency medical technician
Information about Southcentral KCTCS emergency medical technician, registering for elective courses, and taking tests for free online. Whether you are considering an associates degree (CNA, LVN, or LPN), or a bachelor of science in nursing (RN), you will find many doors opening after graduation. If you complete the emergency medical technician (EMT) program, for example, there are a variety of nursing concentrations that may appeal to you, such as emergency care, nursing management, or occupational rehabilitation. Check with the emergency medicine department for an updated schedule of classes, registration deadlines, and a list of emergency medical technician program requirements. Due to advances in medical systems, there is a growing skill-shortage of trained EMTs, and of medical personnel in general. Please use the form above to request admissions info for Southcentral KCTCS.
Southcentral KCTCS Emergency Medical Technician Hutchinson Community College tuition fee Southwestern Adventist University application deadline Pitt Community College industrial engineering major degree requirements Our Lady of the Lake College international house Mount Wachusett Community College online graduate degrees Minot State support services Bowling Green, KY emergency medical technician College of William and Mary research jobs University of North Florida volleyball team Simpson College taxonomy Schenectady County Community College chemistry placement test Midlands Technical College Bachelor of Business Administration
Southcentral KCTCS › emergency medical technician
Southcentral KCTCS Emergency Medical Technician Fort Scott Community College concert schedule Wesley Theological Seminary football game parking Victor Valley College events calendar West Coast University best frats UN Lincoln international house Miles College admittance requirements Southwestern Adventist University financial aid application 2017 Western University associate degree programs Yeshiva University summer session 2014 Copiah-Lincoln Community College broadcast journalism Davenport University support services Nicolet College chemistry placement test Bowling Green, KY emergency medical technician Southcentral KCTCS online graduate degrees Gonzaga University summer session 2014 Minot State University temporary buildings
This website is not affiliated with Southcentral KCTCS emergency medical technician, and all trademarks are exclusive property of the respective owners. On our pages, you can find career training courses and updated job listings for Bowling Green, Kentucky. College Inspector is the work of a group of Thai students in Bangkok, using info from the US Department of Education, Postsecondary Education Data System (IPEDS). The outlook for technical medical careers is especially bright. Opportunities for employment for medical laboratory technicians are expected to increase by 10% to 20% in the next eight years. The increasing number of elderly people is seen as a factor in this growth. As people age they have more medical problems, and hospitals will require more laboratory technicians to perform lab work for them. Aside from a good salary, most medical personnel receive comprehensive medical and dental benefits, as well as retirement plans.
