Medical Diagnosis - Birth Control Lawsuit Center
Even though all oral contraceptives have side effects, some of these medicines are more dangerous than others. Birth control pills that contain drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol hormones, like Yaz, Yasmin, Beyaz and Ocella, have been linked with an increased risk of cardiovascular problems. Studies show that women taking drospirenone/ethinyl estradiol birth control pills are two-to-three times more likely to develop blood clots than women taking birth control pills that do not contain this hormone combination. These changes in the blood can lead to stroke, life-threatening clots in your legs and lungs, or even a heart attack. If you believe that you or a loved one have suffered a birth control heart attack, you may be wondering, "how did this happen, and what do I do next?"
How Can Drospirenone/Ethinyl Estradiol Cause Heart Attacks?
A birth control heart attack can happen to young, healthy women. This is because birth control pills that contain drospirenone/ethinyl estradiol can lead to major changes in the body, potentially injuring the heart. First, these drugs can cause hyper-coagulation making the blood clump. In addition, drospirenone/ethinyl estradiol can raise cholesterol levels, clogging the arteries. If a blood clot becomes lodged in the vessels of the heart, oxygen interruption results in myocardial infarction (MI), or heart attack. Lastly, drugs like Yaz and Yasmin have been reported to alter delicate blood potassium levels, causing the heart to beat abnormally. In each of these cases, loss of heart function may prove fatal.
What Does the FDA Say About Drugs Like Yaz, Yasmin, and Beyaz?
The FDA studied hundreds of thousands of women using drospirenone/ethinyl estradiol birth control pills over a seven year time period. There is concrete evidence that women taking these drugs had a significantly increased risk of blood clots, especially within the first three months of treatment. In addition, the FDA advised that women as young as 35 who took Yaz, Beyaz, Yasmin, and similar drugs had elevated rates of myocardial infarction, or heart attack. The FDA has also accused Bayer, the maker of Yaz, Yasmin, and Beyaz, of including misleading statements in its advertisements for Yaz. As a result, Bayer was required to spend millions of dollars on new ads that corrected the inaccuracies.
What are the Symptoms of a Birth Control Heart Attack?
The greatest chance of surviving a heart attack lies in getting prompt treatment, preferably within minutes. Common signs and symptoms of heart attack include:
Pain, pressure or squeezing in the left-of-center chest area
Arm, jaw, neck or stomach pain
Unexplainable fatigue that may last for days
Symptoms of heart attack greatly vary from one person to the next. These symptoms may be subtle, especially in women. If you or a loved one experiences any of these symptoms, you should call 911 immediately.
Your doctor has many ways to diagnose a heart attack. In order to prescribe a course of treatment, your medical professional will need to determine how much damage occurred and where it happened. Common tests and examinations for heart attack include:
Treatment for blocked arteries usually includes surgery, drug therapy, and lifestyle changes. It's also necessary to stop taking any potentially harmful drugs, including Yaz, Yasmin, Beyaz, or Ocella. Your doctor may perform an angioplasty, using a balloon or coil to break up a clogged vessel. Alternatively, a vein may be harvested from another part of your body to bypass the diseased heart vein (bypass surgery). For an abnormal heartbeat (arrhythmia) due to high blood potassium levels, immediate IV infusions of insulin, glucose, calcium, and other medications are generally tried first. If the potassium level is critically high, blood dialysis will be necessary.
Birth control heart attack is just one of the many risks of birth control pills containing drospirenone/ethinyl estradiol hormones. Sadly, some of the victims will never recover. Bayer has currently settled lawsuits totaling one billion dollars for injuries associated with Yaz. To learn more about your legal options, you should consult with an attorney.
From science to real-life oncology—the ECCO 2018 European Cancer Summit, 7–9 September 2018, Vienna, Austria. ecancermedicalscience - The open access journal from the European Institute of Oncology and the OCEI
From science to real-life oncology—the ECCO 2018 European Cancer Summit, 7–9 September 2018, Vienna, Austria
The European CanCer Organisation (ECCO) held its first European Cancer Summit in Vienna, Austria, from 7–9 September 2018. The summit, ‘From Science to Real-life Oncology’, attracted over 370 participants from across the globe. The aim of the event was connecting science with real life through policy evolution. A broad range of stakeholders attended the event including representatives of ECCO Member Societies, healthcare professionals, pharmaceutical company representatives, patient organisations including patient advocates, commercial providers to the healthcare sector, EU and national/regional government officials as well as academic researchers and regulatory professionals. The summit provided the opportunity to discuss some challenging issues including a European agenda on cancer, the use of big data and putting a price on cancer medicines. One of the objectives of the summit was to gather stakeholder decisions on resolutions looking at efficiency in cancer care, integration of services and quality. The result was a highly interactive well-attended meeting which permitted networking opportunities across stakeholder groups and giving direction to European cancer care.
The summit began with expert perspectives on future policies in cancer across Europe and an opening address from Her Excellency Marie-Loiuise Coleiro Preca, the President of Malta. Dr Vytenis Andriukaitis, the EU Commissioner for Health & Food Safety highlighted how co-operation and solidarity were the cornerstones to collaboration in cancer care and research for Europe and beyond. Raising awareness of issues in relation to cancer was felt to be a priority not only for commissioners but also for all citizens, as there was recognition that across member states in the EU, cancer strategies were not comparable. Dr Dinah Singer from the National Institute of Health (US) presented the Cancer Moonshot a program to accelerate efforts to prevent, diagnose, and treat cancer and the resulting initiatives that have been developed since 2017. This was followed by a discussion of the Cancer Groundshot concept by Professor Mark Lawler with the aim of public health benefit on global cancer outcomes.
The second session of the day, chaired by Professor Richard Sullivan from King’s College London (UK), looked at outcomes research, discussions beginning with ‘what are outcomes?’. Dr Claudia Allemani from the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine (UK) presented data from CONCORD-3, the global programme for worldwide surveillance of cancer survival trends, which has highlighted increasing trends in breast cancer survival from 1995 to 2014, but still large differences in survival worldwide for women diagnosed in 2010–14. Results are rather different for lethal cancers such as lung, liver or pancreatic cancers, for which the prognosis in over 70 countries is still very poor [1]. These results come from ‘real-world’ big data for more than 37 million individual cancer patients collected by more than 320 population-based cancer registries. Dr John O’Donnell Global VP, Health Economics and Outcomes Research for Bristol-Myers Squibb (USA) described how traditional modelling techniques for outcomes may not truly reflect real-world data or what is happening to patients, especially where follow-up of patients is truncated. Dr Bettina Ryll from Melanoma Patient Network Europe evidenced how measuring outcomes does not automatically improve patient care, advocating for reflection on what outcomes are being measured and to whom these are important. Collaborative initiatives were encouraged such as CODE—the collaboration for oncology data in Europe and data sharing.
Finally, on the first day, the issue of big data was tackled including the new and evolving regulatory environment, and how citizens could be data donors. Professor Mark Lawler highlighted the example of patients with ROS1 mutations contacting each other online, sharing biospecimen and genomic data and taking this to the Bonnie J Addario Lung Cancer Foundation to move research and understanding forward. There was overall agreement that big data could be useful to identify gaps and issues allowing focus on areas for future research, but data collection needed to be standardised so as to facilitate an effective use of resources. There was undisputed agreement that patient involvement from the outset was fundamental to ensure collection of data addressing issues of importance to patients as well.
Day 2 began with looking at improving efficiency in cancer care. There was recognition of limited budgets, increasing numbers of patients and a lack of further resource availability. It was argued, however, that efficiency was not necessarily driven by money, but quality and teamwork were important components to be recognised in achieving efficiency. Professor Bengt Jӧnsson from the Stockholm School of Economics (Sweden) described economic models evaluating efficiency, however, financial and resource investment often did not provide comparable outcomes. Kathy Oliver from the International Brain Tumour Alliance went on to present patients perceptions of where inefficiency existed (initial results of the All Can study). The top three were the management of ongoing side effects, the psychological impact and at the point of cancer diagnosis. She also provided an example of how a simple and low-cost initiative provided efficient care—in this case—the use of a string of wool held by the child undergoing radiotherapy and the parent in the waiting room as a link, aiding anxiety management [2].
One of the key themes of the meeting was the development of resolutions on the organisation of cancer care. The first of the resolutions discussed was that of integration of cancer care and the essential requirements. Arguments here focused on the integration of primary care within cancer care. Dr Ian Banks, Chair of the ECCO Patient Advisory Committee asked the audience whether they felt primary care was a fully integrated part of cancer care and there was silence across the room. Only a handful of primary care representatives were present at the session. The significance of the primary care team as a key element was highlighted in a UK policy framework for cancer services over 20 years ago [3], yet true action in this direction was felt to be limited. The importance of primary care in the management of co-morbidities as well as psychological care was acknowledged although a presentation by Dr Tit Albreht highlighted the paucity of guidance for general practitioners for the care of cancer survivors. The session ended with voting on the principal resolution that by 2025, all national cancer plans in Europe should contain ambitious and measurable goals and actions to improve the integration of primary care healthcare professionals and informal carers within multidisciplinary care to patients. Voting was open to all members of the audience and presenters, which included healthcare professionals, patient advocates, commissioners, pharma representatives, academics and researchers and the resolution was well supported.
The second of the resolutions surrounded quality in cancer care and its measurement. Discussions initially began with that of ‘what is quality?’. There was agreement that while evidence-based medicine was one approach to quality and value, perceptions of these concepts may differ from the perspective of payers, commissioners or patients. The challenge is achieving agreement between stakeholders; however, suggestions included reflection on Patient Pathways and the use of quality indicators and patient-reported outcome measures to help in defining quality and value. The session ended with voting on the principal resolution that by 2023 an agreed set of core standards and evidence-based indicators (based on processes and patient outcomes) to measure the quality of all cancer services in European countries should be in place. Again voting was open to all members of the audience and presenters and over 90% supported the resolution.
Professor Richard Sullivan from Kings College London chaired the session on access and value. Professor Yolande Lievens, Past President of the European Society for Radiotherapy and Oncology referred to the ECCO position paper on access to innovation [4] and the importance of engaging professionals, patients and the care community to find sustainable solutions in cancer care. She highlighted work by the International Consortium for Health Outcomes Measurement (ICHOM) who aim to measure and report patient outcomes in a standardised way and have already produced Standard Set’s for health outcomes measurement for some of the more prevalent cancers. Dr Ajay Aggarwal from the Institute of Cancer Policy at Kings College London (UK) highlighted further considerations in the value debate including findings from his research where 50% of drugs entering the market had not demonstrated an improvement in length or quality of life [5]. So again, what is value? Professor Sullivan summarised, suggesting ‘value, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder’.
The second part of this session was focused on value with contributions from nursing and psychologists perspectives. Dr Carole Farrell from the European Oncology Nursing Society evidenced the work of EONS with the RECaN Project and how nurses are contributing to patient outcomes. A meta-analysis following on from a literature review highlighted nurse-led interventions improving the quality of life globally as well as physical function, social and role function domains [6]. Dr Maria Die Trill, the President of the International Psycho-Oncology Society spoke about the ‘sixth vital sign’ and the evaluation of distress via the distress thermometer in clinical practice. She encouraged the involvement of psychosocial, behavioural and psycho-oncology scientists into global cancer treatment and prevention programs as well as integration in rehabilitation programs and as a routine part of cancer care.
The second day closed with the hot topic of ‘Putting a price on cancer medicines’. Eveline Scheres was the first speaker from the Association of European Cancer Leagues who advocate for cancer control and care at an EU level. She described the white paper due for publication in October this year on tackling the challenges in access to medicines for all cancer patients in Europe. Key points included the need for transparency in pricing and profits in order to promote trust between key stakeholders. Nathalie Moll, the Director General of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associates also agreed with transparency as a key component, however, she suggested that drug expenditure was only 20% of total expenditure so there were also existing healthcare system issues that also needed to be addressed. Furthermore, collaborative work needs to be undertaken to move towards access and agreeable solutions for all.
The third resolution was discussed on the final day of the summit: Survivorship and financial discrimination was the theme. Dr Marie Mesnil from the University of Rennes (France) spoke of the insurability of cancer survivors referring to French and Belgian approaches in legislation to address this, including the French law of ‘the right to be forgotten’ where cancer survivors are not obliged to declare their cancer after a defined period of time. It was recognised that new data surrounding survival—especially in the light of recent developments in immunotherapy treatments—were not being taken into account by insurance companies. Šarunas Narbutas from Youth Cancer Europe highlighted the challenge of getting leading insurance companies around the table to talks and the outdated mechanisms in place for calculating risk. Youth Cancer Europe will be holding an afternoon at the European Parliament on 17 October 2018 to discuss essential services for cancer survivors. Janette Rawlinson, a cancer survivor and patient advocate (UK) spoke of her experiences in relation to the occupational impact of cancer with particular focus on people who are self-employed and the unique challenges faced. She also highlighted the differences between cancers and stigma in the workplace, experiences mirrored in comments from the audience. The session ended with voting on the principal resolution that by 2025, in respect to accessing financial services, the right of cancer survivors not to declare their cancer 10 years after the end of the active treatment and 5 years if they had cancer under 18, should be codified across European countries. There was some debate regarding the term ‘active treatment’ and recognition of many patients who were in complete remission yet continued on treatment. It was deemed necessary to define this more clearly. Voting took place (with the note on active treatment) and was passed. The meeting then closed with a presentation from Professor Françoise Meunier from the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer delivering the Patrick Johnston Memorial Lecture.
The summit highlighted a commitment to the provision of high-quality cancer care and this was a unique opportunity for so many different stakeholders to interact and network over the course of the 3 days. Many challenging issues were raised during the sessions and the variety of speakers sharing both complementary and sometimes contrasting perspectives permitted an interesting debate in which participants were well engaged. The agreed-upon resolutions determine ways to improve health systems, and ECCO and all key stakeholders have fundamental roles in realising the consensus of the agreement reached over the course of the summit.
Sarah Jayne Liptrott is a member of the ECCO Patient Advisory Committee and her attendance at the meeting was reimbursed by ECCO.
5. Davis C, Naci H, and Gurpinar E, et al (2017) Availability of evidence of benefits on overall survival and quality of life of cancer drugs approved by European Medicines Agency: retrospective cohort study of drug approvals 2009–13 Br Med J 359 j4530 https://doi.org/10.1136/bmj.j4530
Liptrott Sarah (2018) From science to real-life oncology—the ECCO 2018 European Cancer Summit, 7–9 September 2018, Vienna, Austria ecancer 12 877
Biographical Summary | Eric Ding | Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health
Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health > Eric Ding > Biographical Summary	Biographical Summary
Dr. ERIC DING is an epidemiologist, nutritionist, health economist, and faculty at Harvard Chan School of Public Health. He is also Chief Health Economist and Director of Epidemiology with Microclinic International, and a Soros Fellow.
His work focuses on the intersection of epidemiology, nutrition, health econometrics, global health and randomized interventions, virality of social networks on health behaviors, and health technology. He has published in leading journals, including the New England Journal of Medicine, Journal of the American Medical Association, The Lancet, and Health Policy. His 100+ publications have received over 10,000 external citations (H-Index 38). He is Principal Investigator of several randomized trials of social network interventions against obesity and diabetes in the U.S. and abroad in Jordan, Qatar, and Denmark. Altogether, his competitively awarded projects as PI/CEO/Director have been financed with over $10 million in funding.
A Google Tech Talk keynote speaker, a World Economic Forum Global Shaper, he has also served as: consultant for the World Health Organization, adviser to the European Commission (EC), moderator and committee chair of the EC summit Diabesity, judge for the VH1 Do Something Awards, interviewer for the Soros Fellowship, and member of the Global Burden of Disease Project and US Disease Burden Collaboration.
A cancer prevention advocate and childhood tumor survivor, he founded the 6 million member online Campaign for Cancer Prevention, with Causes, and featured in Newsweek. In total online reach, he directed several health and disease prevention advocacy platforms, with 17 million members. He led the first ever direct-to-science online crowdfunding initiative, raising over $500,000 for cancer research onCauses on Facebook, and featured in the New York Times.
Recognized for his data innovations at a Google Tech Talk, he led a 'Moneyball' study of Major League Baseball players across 130-years and over 500,000+ MLB player-years of data, which highlighted the mortality risks of obesity and body size in athletes, especially in high body mass home-run hitters.
He is also the inventor of several scientific innovations in epidemiology and nutrition: the Lipophilic Index and Lipophilic Load for fatty acids, meta-regression spaghetti analysis of non-linear splines, the Evidenced Formal Coverage Index for universal healthcare coverage prediction, and isotemporal substitution risk models for time displacement causation.
He was awarded the 2014 Global Health Project of the Year by the Consortium of Universities for Global Health, awarded the 2012 Outstanding Young Leader Award from the Boston Chamber of Commerce, awarded the 2015 American Heart Association Scott Grundy Excellence Award, and named among Craig Newmark's "16 People and Organizations Changing the World in 2012". His work was cited by the directors of CDC and CMMS in the framework of the "Million Hearts" initiative, and his research recognized as 'Best of the American Heart Association', twice.
He has been featured in the Chronicle of Philanthropy, Newsweek, The New York Times, Boston Globe, among two dozen newspapers/magazines, and profiled in several books including: CauseWired (Tom Watson 2008), Zilch (Nancy Lublin 2010), Shift & Reset (Brian Reich 2011), and Thinfluence (Walter Willett 2014). He was also awarded the Paul and Daisy Soros Fellowship in 2008.
He attended The Johns Hopkins University, graduating with Honors in Public Health and Phi Beta Kappa (junior year election) at age 21. He then completed his dual doctorate in epidemiology and doctorate in nutrition at age 23 from Harvard University. He also completed his post-doctoral fellowship at the Harvard School of Public Health. Teaching at Harvard for over a decade, he has taught more than a dozen graduate and undergraduate courses, for which he received the Derek Bok Distinction in Teaching Award from Harvard College.
Home Services Cancer Institute Lung Cancer
Thoracic & Lung Cancer Care
Lung cancer is one of the most common forms of cancer diagnosed in the U.S. The American Cancer Society estimates that more than 200,000 new cases are diagnosed each year.
Lung cancer is the predominant malignancy involving the thorax, or chest. However, tumors (mesotheliomas) can also originate from the inner surface of the chest wall and the center part of the chest (mediastinum), including the thymus gland, esophagus and lymph glands.
Of the two major types of lung cancer, non-small cell and small cell carcinoma, the most common is non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). It has three subtypes: squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma and large cell carcinomas. Small-cell lung cancer (SCLC) spreads more quickly through the body and is often not found in its early stages.
Each type of lung cancer behaves differently, so treatment approaches will vary. Using leading-edge, ultra-precise diagnostic and cancer-staging tools, our Cancer Care team can accurately diagnose the type of lung cancer a patient has, determine how advanced the cancer is and determine whether it has spread in the body.
Lung cancer diagnostic and staging services at Sarasota Memorial's Brian D. Jellison Cancer Institute include bronchoscopy, robotic bronchoscopy, endobronchical ultrasound (EBUS), esophageal endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), endobronchial navigation bronchoscopy (ENB) and mediastinoscopy, as well as CT-guided biopsies and interventional radiology techniques.
The Jellison Cancer Institute was among the first in the US to use Auris Health's innovative Monarch robotic-bronchoscopy system, which features a flexible, robotic endoscope. Used to view the inside of the lungs and obtain a tissue sample for biopsy, the Monarch Platform enables earlier and more-accurate diagnosis of small and hard-to-reach lung nodules.
With a precise diagnosis, our care team works with each patient to create custom treatment plans. Lung cancer treatment might include surgery, other interventional procedures, radiation or infusion therapy.
Need help navigating your cancer journey? Contact our Lung Cancer Nurse Navigator at 941-917-6205 or LungNavigation@smh.com.
Surgical Treatments for Lung Cancer
Da Vinci Robot-assisted, minimally invasive thoracic surgery
Bloodless surgery options
Thoracic Resections:
Mediastinal resection (tumor / cysts)
Segmental / Wedge resection
Fiducial implantation for Thoracic Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy (SBRT)
At Sarasota Memorial's Jellison Cancer Institute, we treat more than just the disease. Our care focuses on the whole person, helping patients—and their families—through the physical, emotional and mental effects of cancer. This integrated cancer care approach includes:
Oncology navigation support
Lung Cancer Review Board
The Sarasota Memorial team of cancer specialists meets weekly to review patient cases and collaborate on the best treatment strategies. This team includes thoracic surgeons, medical oncologists, radiation oncologists, pulmonologists, interventional and diagnostic radiologists, pathologists, certified oncology nurses, supportive care clinicians and other specialists. Collaboration is key for the very best care and treatment for cancer patients.
US News ranks Sarasota Memorial as a high performer for Lung Cancer Surgery in its 2020-2021 report.
The Sarasota Memorial Cancer Institute carries the nation's highest level of accreditation by the American College of Surgeons Commission on Cancer (CoC). It has maintained continuous CoC accreditation since 1988.
Frequently Asked Questions | Rosemary Health
Find answers to frequently asked questions about Rosemary
What is Rosemary Health?
Rosemary Health is building Australia's leading online healthcare system, creating a patient-centric primary care platform to deliver a personalised, end-to-end healthcare experience from diagnosis to medication delivery to ongoing care. We believe we're only years away from a future where more healthcare services are provided remotely rather than in person. At Rosemary, we're making this future a reality.
Who is Rosemary for?
Rosemary is for anyone over the age of 18 and living in Australia who would prefer to seek treatment from the comfort of their home. Some of the treatments we offer require you to have already seen a doctor in-person and received a diagnosis. A Medicare card is not necessary to receive treatment.
How is Rosemary different from a regular visit to the GP?
We provide the same level of professional care as a traditional visit to the doctor, but more
convenient because we're 100% online. Just like a traditional GP visit, our doctors need to understand your symptoms and medical history in order to see if it's safe and appropriate to give you care. If appropriate, we can write a prescription for a personalised treatment plan with free delivery and convenient
automatic reorders.
Does Rosemary replace my general practitioner?
Rosemary is a complement to—not a replacement for—your general practitioner. So it's important to keep your GP and any other doctors involved in your care. It is recommended to visit your doctor to review your symptoms and health history once you have finished your rescript with Rosemary.
Is video call required?
No, video chat is not required, but a video consultation is one of the options available to connect with a doctor at Rosemary. After answering the questions in your first online visit, a doctor may contact you via phone or text to ask more questions if necessary.
No, you do not need to make an appointment to use Rosemary, unless you are booking a video consultation.. Our online, text-based platform makes it easy to access real doctors and treatments anytime, anywhere. Fill out the assessments 24/7, whenever it is convenient for you. Our doctors review within 24 hours, but often turn around times are much quicker.
The online assessments typically take about 5 minutes to complete. Each questionnaire covers your medical history and symptoms so our doctors can best identify a suitable treatment plan for your needs. Once you have submitted the assessment and paid the doctor's consultation fee, our doctors review within 24 hours, depending on what time the assessment is submitted.
A doctor will typically review your assessment and respond within hours.
If you are having a medical emergency, please call 000 immediately.
Rosemary treats a range of conditions for a new diagnosis and repeat prescriptions.
Repeat prescriptions only:
- Blood Pressure and Heart
- Lungs and Asthma
Do I need a prescription to use Rosemary?
No, you do not need a prescription to use Rosemary. Our doctors will write a prescription if they deem it safe and appropriate to do so after reviewing your online assessment.
No, if the doctor reviews your assessment and deems it not medically appropriate to prescribe you a prescription treatment plan, you will not receive one. Your doctor will send you a message with details and next steps. Your health and safety is our top priority, and our doctors adhere to the most stringent clinical practices.
We offer most medications that are available in pharmacies around Australia. If you have been prescribed before, you can search for your prescription medication at the beginning of your online assessment.
Can I choose specific brand name medications?
Yes, we carry a broad range of prescription medications, including both branded and generic medication.
For rescripts of previously prescribed medication, you can select the brand name medications that you've been taking or choose to purchase generic medication.
Can I request a different treatment than what was prescribed?
Yes. If your doctor has recommended a treatment that doesn't work for you or if you're interested in exploring other options, you can request to swap treatments within your account page. Your health and safety is our doctors' top priority and changing treatments is up to their discretion.
Our doctor's consultation fee for most services is only $20, our online video consultation cost $50 per call at a duration of 15 minutes.
The cost of the medication will vary depending on what the doctor decides is best suited for you. You will always have the opportunity to review each treatment's cost and details before paying, and even choose between branded medication you may be familiar with or generic medication that is equally effective but significantly cheaper in price.
If you would like to check the availability and pricing of the medication we stock, please search for your medication on our homepage. All of our services come with free ongoing nationwide shipping and free ongoing follow ups with our doctors online.
Can I bulk bill through Medicare?
No, unfortunately Rosemary services cannot be claimed through Medicare at this time.
You may be able to claim some or all of your medication cost through your private health insurance. If you need a receipt to file a claim, please sign into your account and download a receipt in your Order history.
What if the medication doesn't work? Do I get a refund?
If you have received and tried the medication prescribed and are unhappy with the results, you can message your doctor and request to try a different treatment.
If the doctor decides it is not medically appropriate to prescribe you a treatment plan, you will receive a refund for your doctor's consultation fee. This applies for all our service except our video call service.
How do I pause or cancel medicine deliveries?
Log into your account and click "Pause" underneath the treatment you'd like to pause or cancel. From there you can cancel the automatic reorders.
We offer free medication delivery anywhere in Australia for all treatments. Depending on your location, it may take up to 5 business days to arrive.
Unfortunately, prescription products cannot be returned once they have been dispatched from a pharmacy. However, if you feel there may have been an error dispensing your prescription, please contact us at hello@rosemaryhealth.com.au.
What packaging will my treatment be delivered in?
All medications are shipped in discreet, plain boxes. It will not reveal the name of the medication.
When do I pay for the repeat medication?
After you have paid for your personalised treatment plan, log into your account to review details like dosage instructions and shipping frequency. For your convenience, repeat medications will be automatically charged to the credit card saved to your account. You will receive an email a few days before the reorder date to remind you of the upcoming delivery. This can be paused or cancelled at anytime.
Yes, prescribing medications and buying medicine online is legal and safe in Australia.
Rosemary is an Australian company that connects you with licensed doctors and pharmacists in Australia, all online for your convenience. Every doctor you interact with is licensed to prescribe medications and treat patients in Australia and complies with all governing medical laws.
Rosemary is for your own personal and private use. Unfortunately, it is not legal for you to access healthcare services on behalf of another person.
In order for our doctors to legally provide you with medical advice and for you to consent to the consultation, we need to make sure that you are who you say you are.
It takes about 2 minutes to complete and only needs to be done once. Make sure you have a valid document with you:
- Australian drivers license
- Foreign passport with an Australian visa
- Australian birth certificate
- Australian citizen certificate
Who is the partner pharmacy on the platform?
Rosemary passes your prescription to our partner pharmacy to dispense and deliver your treatment. We only work with licensed Australian pharmacists who have gone through a thorough verification check before joining the platform.
Our partner pharmacy is:
Poet's Corner Pharmacy
4/45 Morehead St, Redfern NSW 2016
(02) 9698 1348
We take your privacy and the security of your information very seriously. Rosemary complies with all relevant privacy laws and has implemented strict security protocols to protect your information.
Telehealth provides the ability to book a phone or video consultation with a doctor from the comfort of your own home. Rosemary offers the ability for you to speak to a practitioner via video or phone call.
What equipment do I need to do telehealth on Rosemary?
You can use a web-cam and internet enabled computer, tablet or mobile device.
Many issues can be resolved using Telehealth, including but not restricted to- certain medical advice, requesting repeat prescriptions, medical certificates or specialist referrals. Occasionally, a doctor will need to see you in person, but will direct you accordingly to attend the practice or seek care elsewhere as appropriate.
Absolutely. There may be some restrictions based on the type of medication being prescribed and the process by which you receive your prescription and medications may vary depending on the practitioner's recommendations.
Can I get controlled medications over Telehealth?
Note that Schedule 8 and Schedule 4D Controlled Drug medications and drugs of addiction cannot be prescribed via telehealth. This includes codeine, S8 drugs, S4D drugs, opioids and habit forming or addictive sleeping tablets. It is inappropriate to prescribe any such medication in this manner due to the potential for addiction and misuse. It is not possible for our GPs to provide any restricted medications. Please do not proceed to book a video consultation if you are seeking such medication as your consultation fee with the GP will not be refunded.
How much does a telehealth appointment cost on Rosemary?
Our online video consultation cost $50 per call at a duration of 15 minutes. Any out of pocket expense for your appointment may be payable directly online via credit card.
Payment using a credit card will be securely collected by Rosemary at the time of booking.
What do I do if I need to cancel the appointment before it starts?
You can cancel bookings in the calendar link. Or contact us at hello@rosemaryhealth.com.au for further assistance. You will receive a full refund.
hype – Viruses Dead End Here & Much More
Alarm Over India's Dengue Fever Epidemic – NYTimes.com
February 21, 2013 October 28, 2013 by nmartinez1938, posted in Dengue Fever, epidemic concerns, hype, news, Vaccine
Alarm Over India's Dengue Fever Epidemic - NYTimes.com This 6 November 2012 tells the true story of what is going on with dengue fever-- Lots of under reporting of actual cases! Travellers are bringing back the disease into the United States and even they are not out of the woods yet. As I research other issues, … Continue reading Alarm Over India's Dengue Fever Epidemic – NYTimes.com
Tagged alarm, simple remedy, under reporting, united states
Dengue Fever Vaccine Less Effective In Clinical Trial Than Hoped. This article reports that a viable vaccine may not be available before 2015. I ask you, and wish you would ask questions and comment; "How many deaths will occur between now and three years later? Answer-- to many. It would have been in the best … Continue reading Dengue fever vaccine less effective in clinical trial than hoped
Dengue Fever – Playing Games With Our Lives
December 30, 2012 October 28, 2013 by nmartinez1938, posted in British Medical Journal Letter, Doctor Sanath Hettige, hype, leaf extract, misinformation, No Cure, Papaya, Vaccine
Does Huffington Post read the Times of India; "http://articles.timesofindia.indiatimes.com/2012-12-20/chennai/35933070_1_dengue-virus-dengue-cases-dengue-patients" – obviously not. It's not required reading, especially if you want to remain in the dark, void of truth. The Huffington Post article http://www.huffingtonpost.com/2012/09/11/dengue-fever-vaccine-effective-sanofi-_n_1872317.html?view=print&comm_ref=false-- reports; "But it seems that making a mixed dengue vaccine containing four different virus strains can produce uneven results, underscoring the complexity … Continue reading Dengue Fever – Playing Games With Our Lives
5 Ways STEM leaders are supporting mental health in the world - IntaPeople | 5 Ways STEM leaders are supporting mental health in the world 5 Ways STEM leaders are supporting mental health in the world - IntaPeople
< advice / 5 Ways STEM leaders are supporting mental health in the world
5 Ways STEM leaders are supporting mental health in the world
Last year alone, over 822,000 workers in the UK were affected by work-related stress, depression or anxiety and it's estimated that 1 in 6 of us will experience mental health problems at work at some point during our lives. Even though so many of us are likely to be affected by work-related stress, many people do not feel that their organisations are supporting employees in the workplace, nor do they feel comfortable discussing their mental health and wellbeing with their managers, colleagues, and employers.
So how can we improve mental health in the workplace? We can take examples from leading STEM organisations who are already breaking new ground when it comes to supporting employees in the workplace, breaking down stigma and improving the mental health and wellbeing of their workforce.
5 famous STEM leaders and how they support their employees' mental health
Here are five famous STEM leaders who are supporting employees in the workplace in creative and innovative ways.
The leading ERP technology and software development company are all about the importance of leadership driving change when it comes to their employees' mental health and wellbeing. The company's director of digital health and wellbeing, Torsten Paul, stresses the importance of de-stigmatisation and openness when it comes to developing a workplace culture that embraces mental health and wellbeing and the top executives of SAP are keen lead change internally.
The company encourages employees at all levels to share their stories about overcoming mental health challenges through video testimonials which are shared on their internal company website. There is also a two-day mindfulness programme open to all. Employees fill out regular self-assessments and managers assess the organisation's efforts.
Unilever are notable for how they have leveraged technology to help their employees' mental health and wellbeing. Despite being a consumer goods manufacturer, they have embraced tech to allow 50% of their workforce to work remotely and have developed an app which allows their employees to access health and wellbeing information, complete a self-assessment and access urgent mental health assistance wherever they are.
They also offer workshops and access to a wellbeing hub which brings together the company's mental health and wellbeing resources for easy access by managers and employees.
Google puts its emphasis on peer support through its employee network, Blue Dot. Blue Dot members offer their co-workers the opportunity to talk about their mental health in a non-judgemental space. The global group aims to reduce the stigma around discussing mental health at work and the only expectation on its members is to listen. Listeners sport a blue dot on their employee badge as a signal to others that they are a safe person to talk to.
Of course, being a tech giant means that Blue Dot uses technology to facilitate online-only conversations, sign ups, virtual get-togethers, and training for its Listeners across its many regions globally.
Microsoft Cares is Microsoft's Employee Assistance Programme (EAP) that encompasses counselling, stress management training, emotional and behavioural support that is available for all employees and their families. Microsoft also emphasises parental leave and flexible childcare leave as a part of their EAP offering. Again, it's not a surprise to see a tech company offering an app and website that pulls together all available mental health resources and training, but what sets Microsoft's Be Well app apart is its use of gamification to engage employees with mental health and wellbeing.
Interestingly, at Microsoft employees have organically created a peer sharing mental health network which began as a way for employees to share personal stories but has been formalised as an "Ally Bench" that builds allyship through small inclusive sharing groups.
Every single one of Johnson & Johnson's mental health and wellness resources and programmes are available to their employees and their family members. This includes six paid for therapy sessions annually and access to mindfulness and resilience apps, educational material, stress management classes and help with budgeting.
They provide numerous Employee Resource Groups around mental health, appoint a mental health ambassador, and have trained hundreds of employees as Mental Health Diplomats to provide mental health first aid.
Not every business has the resources available as some of the largest STEM organisations out there. But there are plenty of different ways that employers, large and small, can reduce workplace stress and support their employees' mental health at work, such as:
Using flexible working models
Developing a culture that prioritises mental health and wellbeing
Leveraging technology such apps, web portals and video counselling services
Modelling change from the top down
IntaPeople can help you develop a supportive work culture and recruitment strategy
If you are looking for more help or insight on building a supportive work environment that improves your employees' mental health and encourages communication around the subject of mental health, please get in touch! Our expert STEM recruitment consultants can offer insights, advice and support as well as assisting with your recruitment needs.
Find out how we can help you build a recruitment strategy that supports you and your employees and drives your business forward.
Physical therapy: working on a prescribed routine to strengthen certain muscles can heal your pain and prevent further injury.
Medication: medication may be suggested for pain relief and to bring down any inflammation or swelling.
Dieting: foods high in trans fat, refined sugar, and processed food can be highly inflammatory. Your spine center may recommend altering your diet and trying to maintain a healthy weight.
Epidural steroid injections: these injections are typically successful in reducing or eliminating pain for patients. They are mainly used when the source of the pain is known and can help rule out certain causes if the treatment does not work.
If your condition is not responding to nonsurgical treatments or you are experiencing significant pain, surgery may be recommended. Another reason for surgery may be that a portion of your spinal cord is being compressed and causing pain, symptoms such as these are known as myelopathy. When these symptoms are present, surgery is needed to relieve pressure on the spinal cord.
Since every patient is different, no two treatments are the same. Your treatment depends on the area that is affected, these treatments may include:
While surgery is not always a spine specialist’s first choice, surgery may be the best option for some patients to relieve pain, prevent further damage to the spinal cord, and improve the quality of life.
By visiting a spine center in New Jersey when you are having back or neck issues, you can be sure surgery will not be your first and only option, unless it is absolutely necessary. For the best care, book an appointment at Coastal Spine – South Jersey’s top spine center. Schedule an appointment today.

We’ve never had much interest in birding beyond gawking at pelican squadrons and solitary raptors common to The Coastside. Too fussy. But our recent visit to Pescadero Marsh Natural Preserve may have changed our minds.
The brackish, 600-acre marsh is the only significant coastal wetland on the San Francisco Peninsula. More than 230 bird species visit the marsh during the course of the year, and at least 68 actually nest there. And on April 4, the San Mateo County Resource Conservation District announced $3.1 million in grant awards to help restore populations of coho salmon and steelhead trout here and in the San Gregorio watershed. So cool!
The marsh is easy to miss as you cruise down Highway 1 from Half Moon Bay toward Santa Cruz, dazzled by the bluffs, beaches and surf. It’s hard for a low-lying wetland to compete with the majesty of the coastline — unless you stop the car and walk in.
We parked just south of Pescadero Creek and looped back across the bridge and onto the north side of Pescadero State Beach via a well-fortified pedestrian walkway. The beach is pretty standard for The Coastside – it is amazing! – and even includes a pretty little keyhole rock. Some days, The Geek might have waited many hours for just the right light to come pouring through the stone portal before moving on. But we had birds to discover.
The Sequoia Audubon Trail begins east of the bridge to the left of a small lagoon at the confluence of Pescadero and Butano creeks. We enjoyed an unusually entertaining gathering of gulls slacking at the lagoon before spotting the trail marker and walking out onto a levee, one of many left over from when portions of the marsh were farmed from the 1930s into the 1960s.
August 11, 2020 – admin
If you are sick, see your doctor. This is one person's opinion and is not suggested as a cure or treatment for anything.It is just a point of information from the net.I don't know who provided this formula but if you click on the URL you will see they censored the link. In any event I was able to get it. One doctor said in a video he was using Hydroxychloroquine for his lupus patients and the pharmacist wouldn't fill it. Ohio had tried to ban it and the Governor intervened. It's been used for 65 years.Dr. Judy Mikovits who wrote "Plague of Corruption" has written another book I just received called "Plague". She writes about chronic fatigue syndrome among other diseases. About the time of the release of aspartame the Epstein Barr Association changed their name to Chronic Fatigue. The Atlanta Journal Constitution wrote over an entire page and a half called "The Enemy Within" on Chronic Fatigue. They said it came out in the early 1980's which is when aspartame was marketed through the political chicanery of Don Rumsfeld. The aspartame pandemic is now called Rumsfeld's Plague.
The Blogging Hounds August 20, 2020 Bible Prophecy, end times plagues, last days plagues, Pandemrix, plagues in the endtimes, The Bible, the Word of Yahweh
Previous Previous post: Coronavirus: 'conflicting treatment message' as China rejects Trump-touted drug hydroxychloroquine
Chemotherapy is a treatment that uses drugs to destroy or prevent further growth of cancer cells. It is a systemic treatment, meaning that the drugs flow through the bloodstream to nearly every part of the body.
You may want to talk to another doctor who can look at your test results, speak with you about your personal situation, and give you a different take. Getting a second opinion can help you feel more sure about your diagnosis and treatment plan.
You may not have a lot of time to speak with your oncologist during an appointment, so it is wise to be prepared. Take a look at a few steps you can take to get ready.
Radiation therapy is a cancer treatment that uses high doses of radiation to kill cancer cells and stop them from spreading.
Over time, the strain of coping with your diagnosis and the realities of treatment may be compounded by other stresses, such as keeping up with work and dealing with family and friends.
Throughout your experience with cancer, you may have reason to travel � for treatment, work, or for pleasure.
Cancer occurs when healthy cells live beyond their normal life cycle, do not die, and continue to grow out of control. As these abnormal cells multiply, they destroy normal, healthy cells.
Cancer treatments can present extra challenges when it comes to makeup and cosmetics. Special care needs to be taken when choosing and applying cosmetics.
