Women and young people’s rights to reproductive health services, information and education cannot be protected without ensuring that they can determine when, how many, and whether to bear children, control their bodies and sexuality, and be free from violence.
UNFPA works at global and country levels to ensure that those elements are addressed through its programme and mission. In Maldives, the UNFPA country office works with the vision of ensuring that the reproductive rights of all, including women, young and marginalized people, are protected. The work will contribute to advance the realization of human rights within the framework of accountability, quality, and equity and also by ensuring acceptability.
Teenage Pregnancy
Although sex outside marriage is illegal and punishable by law, anecdotal evidence, hospital records and judiciary statistics show incidence of non-marital pregnancies. The consequences of the pregnancies include increased vulnerability of young people, especially young girls to self-induced illegal abortions, maternal deaths, infanticides (18 in 2012 and 2013), and gender based violence (1 in 3 women).
Other repercussions such as broken families, female headed households (33%), youth getting married early to avoid stigma, as well as reduced opportunities to pursue education and employment to fully realise their potential, are disproportionally felt by young women.
Gender-based Violence (GBV)
Having supported the development of the Health Sector response to GBV: National Guideline on providing care and prevention for Health Care Providers and the online course for health care providers, UNFPA continues to help strengthen the health sector to implement the national guidelines and engage young people to raise awareness on the impact of GBV.
What we do
· UNFPA coordinates inter-agency efforts to advance gender equality advocacy especially, addressing women’s rights using an alternative narrative in view of socio-cultural opportunities and challenges. This intervention includes support to develop a National Human Rights Action Plan to monitor accepted recommendations from the Universal Periodic Review (UPR) and the reporting process for the Convention on Elimination of All forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW).
· UNFPA works to engage the up-stream, policy level through rights-based analysis and alignment of standards, guidelines and protocols of the existing policy and legal frameworks to the international standards.
Related Content
News
Message of Dr. Babatunde Osotimehin, UNFPA Executive Director, for International Women’s Day, 8 March 2012
Empower Rural Women - End Hunger and Poverty Message of Dr. Babatunde Osotimehin, UNFPA Executive Director, for International Women's Day, 8...
8 March 2012
read more >
Resources
State of the World Population Report 2012
By Choice, Not By Chance: Family Planning, Human Rights and Development
1 January 2012
view resource >
News
World Humanitarian Day : 19 August 2010
World Humanitarian Day this year's theme is on the importance of addressing women's concerns during humanitarian responses.
Tumor-Seeking Salmonella Treats Brain Tumors – Planet Tech News
Clinicians sorely need new treatment approaches for glioblastoma, the most aggressive form of brain cancer. The blood-brain barrier, a protective sheath separating brain tissue from its blood vessels, makes it difficult to attack the disease with drugs. It's also difficult to completely remove through surgery, as even tiny remnants inevitably spawn new tumors.
Even with the best care currently available, median survival time is a dire 15 months, and only 10 percent of patients survive five years once diagnosed.
The Duke team decided to pursue an aggressive treatment option to match its opponent, turning to the bacterium Salmonella typhimurium. With a few genetic tweaks, the engineers turned the bacterium into a cancer-seeking missile that produces self-destruct orders deep within tumors. Tests in rat models with extreme cases of the disease showed a remarkable 20 percent survival rate over 100 days, roughly equivalent to 10 human years, with the tumors going into complete remission.
Then, the Duke engineers made a series of genetic tweaks so that the bacteria would produce two compounds called Azurin and p53 that instruct cells to commit suicide, but only in the presence of low levels of oxygen. And since cancerous cells are multiplying so energetically, the environment around and within tumors has unusually low oxygen.
2.Granulomatous cystitis-pt treated for severe bladder dysplasia with BCG has now non caseating granulomas in the bladder biopsy
1.Inhaled heroin- died surrounded by lighters and cigarettes and in his pipe was brown residue. He was a drug addict.
3.Cocaine or solvent sniffing- came from prison, took some drugs, went shoplifting and died when was chased by police
4.Fentanyl patch overdose- sickle cell anaemia took his usual medication and was found dead with multiple rectangular patches on the skin
A 4 year old boy has an enlarged neck lymph node with stellate necrosis and no CXR changes-Mycobacterium fortuitum
GI haemorrhage and partial resection of large bowel, received in formalin and did not show any patology-angiodysplasia
Died of cardiac problems during cystectomy intensive CPR and PM finding was fat with small cells in it in pulmonary arteries-bone marrow embolism
3 day old neonate died and autopsy showed petechial haemorrhages in the liver that on histology were foci of necrosis-?
28 male with ileal mass. There are sheets of moderate size lymphocytes with intracytoplasmic lipid, pos for bcl6 and CD 10, neg for TdT and all the T markers, MIB 90%-Burkitt
NLPHL vs classical Hodgkins- mediastinal lymphadenopathy in 30sth male, many Reed Sternberg like cell pos for CD20, surrounded by rosettes of cells pos for CD57
1. Teenager got drunk in a pub and ended up with papules and then ulceration on the vulva. Painful inguinal LNs. HSV2
2. Postmenopausal bleeding- a mass 10cm in the ovary. It contains cartilage, bone, rabdomyoblasts, intestine, skin. But the majority of the tumour consists of tubular structures lined with eosinophilic cell. (?or papillary structures lined by tall eosinophilic cells)
3. Virilism, increased libido, hair loss. Tumour forms microtubular structures lined by cells with nuclear grooves. What stain would you do to confirm the diagnosis:
4. Neck mass in a smoker. Cytology shows lymphocytes and epithelioid cells that show grey granules on Pap. Diagnosis:
7.26 male come from Hong Kong with a mass in the neck. Biopsy shows syncytial growth of cells, all of them show prominent nucleoli. There are eosinophils. What immuno would you do to confirm the diagnosis:
11.Died at home, male , had depression and hypertenstion. Toxicology shows phenylethylalanin and alcohol. Alc level 480mg%. Bladder was empty. Why phenylethylalanin was not measured?
14. Bx shows crypt hypertrophy, shortening of villi and intraepithelial lymphocytes and lymphoepithelial lesion and mesenteric lymphadenopathy. On MDT doctors decided that the diagnosis lies between lymphoma and caeliac disease. What feature would favour lymphoma:
15. What features of giant cell tumour of the tendon sheath would the most predict its aggressive/malignant behaviour:
Pathology outlines: Malignant if nodular and solid invasive growth plus large cells with large nuclei, prominent nucleoli, necrotic areas and atypical mitotic figures
16. Lesions on the shins and dorsal palms show saw toothing and lichenoid changes. What type of reaction is it:
The following Norco Anhedonia side effect reports were submitted by healthcare professionals and consumers.
This information will help you understand how side effects, such as Anhedonia, can occur, and what you can do about them.
This Anhedonia side effect was reported by a health professional from UNITED STATES. A 17-year-old female patient (weight:NA) experienced the following symptoms/conditions: back pain. The patient was prescribed Norco (dosage: Unk), which was started on Sep 27, 2009. Concurrently used drugs:
This Anhedonia Norco side effect was reported by a consumer or non-health professional from UNITED STATES on Feb 07, 2012. A Female , 26 years of age, was treated with Norco. The patient presented the following health conditions:
This is a Norco side effect report of a 26-year-old female patient (weight:NA) from UNITED STATES, suffering from the following symptoms/conditions: NA, who was treated with Norco (dosage:NA, start time: Mar 02, 2007), combined with:
which developed after the beginning of treatment. The patient was hospitalized. This side effect report can indicate a possible existence of increased vulnerability to Norco treatment in female patients suffering from NA, resulting in Anhedonia.
The patient was hospitalized. This finding indicates that some patients can be more vulnerable to developing Norco side effects, such as Anhedonia.
A female patient from UNITED STATES was prescribed and started Norco on Dec 05, 2011. Patient felt the following Norco side effects: cyanosis, superior sagittal sinus thrombosis, psychological trauma, anhedonia, injury, pain in extremity, transverse sinus thrombosis, feeling cold Additional patient health information: Female , 18 years of age, weighting 140.0 lb, The consumer reported the following symptoms: was diagnosed with
This report suggests a potential Norco Anhedonia side effect(s) that can have serious consequences. A 26-year-old female patient from UNITED STATES (weight:NA) was diagnosed with the following health condition(s): NA and used Norco (dosage: Unk) starting Jan 01, 2007. Soon after starting Norco the patient began experiencing various side effects, including:
The patient was hospitalized. Although Norco demonstrated significant improvements in a number of clinically relevant cases, troublesome symptoms, such as Anhedonia, may still occur.
Resources - CHI Franciscan Health
Franciscan>Health Care Services>Cancer Center>Survivorship Planning>Resources
Cancer survivorship programs For the first time in US and in human history, there are millions of cancer survivors. As a consequence, there is also a need for on–going cancer survivorship programs. Franciscan Cancer Care recognized this need several years ago and has developed cancer survivorship programs and services to support all survivors. While being a cancer survivor is a great victory, the disease and treatment can leave survivors with physical, mental, and spiritual challenges after active treatment is complete. The treatment may also change patient's total health situation; he/she may need more careful monitoring by a doctor after treatment is finished. Survivorship services and programs are intended to:
Since 2009, Franciscan Cancer Care has led and sponsored a community-wide Cancer Survivor Conference. Many community providers and non-profit organizations come together to provide a comprehensive program to meet the needs of cancer survivors. This event offers presentations on side-effects, mindfulness, exercise, nutrition, art therapy, disability, hormone-dependent cancers, sexuality, stress-reduction techniques and other topics chosen by survivors. To view a complete list of the past conference events along with individual speaker presentations please visit: www.pccancersurvivorship.org.
Nutrition & Wellness - Page 2 of 7 - The Source - Washington University in St. Louis
Lora Iannotti, associate professor at the Brown School and an expert on maternal and child nutrition, spoke during a panel discussion in June about the launch of the UN Nutrition discussion paper on livestock-derived foods and sustainable healthy diets.
A study led by researchers at Washington University School of Medicine has identified a protein in the immune system that may protect babies from necrotizing enterocolitis, a leading cause of death among premature infants.
Researchers at Washington University School of Medicine and Cornell University have implanted insulin-secreting cells into diabetic mice to normalize their blood sugar.
Eating a Western diet impairs the gut's immune system in ways that could increase risk of infection and inflammatory bowel disease, according to a study from the Washington University School of Medicine and Cleveland Clinic.
The Clinical Research Forum, a nonprofit association of top clinical research experts from the nation's leading academic health centers, has awarded an international interdisciplinary team led by Jeffrey I. Gordon, MD, a Distinguished Clinical Research Achievement Award for his study "Integrating Global Health with the Microbiome."
A new study led by the School of Medicine has found a link between consuming sugary drinks and an increased risk of colorectal cancer among women under 50. The findings could help explain the rising rates of colorectal cancer among younger adults.
Jeffrey Gordon, MD, has received the 2021 Kober Medal, one of the highest awards in academic medicine. Given by the Association of American Physicians, the honor recognizes Gordon's extraordinary contributions to the field of gut microbiome research.
A new study shows that a therapeutic food designed to repair the gut microbiomes of malnourished children is better than standard therapy in supporting their growth. The study was led by researchers at the School of Medicine and was published in The New England Journal of Medicine.
Reviews | Dr. Scott A Barbour, MD | Lawrenceville, GA | Vitals
Dr. Scott A Barbour MD
Dr. Scott A Barbour Is this you?
Have you seen Dr. Scott A Barbour?
Excellent Doctor and Educator!
A review by a patient that verified they have visited Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on November 20th, 2017
I am 4th year medical student. I rotated with Dr. Barbour. He is an excellent doctor who not only educates his patient s but students who work with him. His clinical staff is so friendly and very helpful, within a few hours there I felt like part of the team. All of the staff take their time to explain and listen to the concerns of their patients, and address them in a timely manners. It was a great pleasure to be part of the clinic.
A review by a patient that verified they have visited Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on October 29th, 2017
I was treated at his office after a car accident. I had eight visits there and never saw the doctor. Enough said.
Self-verified patient of Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on September 1st, 2017
Dr. Barbour is passionate and knowledgeable with many years of experience. I highly recommend him for all your orthopedic needs.
Self-verified patient of Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on August 28th, 2017
Caring, professional, answer all questions, extremely welcoming staff!
No Better Doc
Self-verified patient of Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on August 16th, 2017
I can't recommend Dr. Barbour enough. He actually listened to my condition, he explained the condition thoroughly, and most importantly, got me back to my old self following a surgery. An awesome doc!
A review by a patient that verified they have visited Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on February 22nd, 2017
Awesome experience! Great office!!
A patient who verified they visited Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on February 16th, 2017
Absolutely wonderful! I had surgery to repair my meniscus and to replace my ACL. One week later, at my follow up appointment, I was walking on my own without crutches or discomfort. I would very highly recommend Dr. Barbour to anyone and everyone!
Self-verified patient of Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on January 9th, 2017
Excellent doctor/ surgeon
A patient who verified they visited Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on December 13th, 2016
I was seen very promptly and given the best information in a way that was easy to understand. Everything was explained and they made sure I understood all of my options. Everyone-from the front office staff to Dr. Barbour himself- went out of their way to make sure I got the absolute BEST care from the moment I walked in the door. I would highly recommend Dr. Barbour and his staff!!!
Wish I had come to Dr Barbour first
A patient who verified they visited Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on February 19th, 2016
Literally felt 10x better two days after my surgery. Wish I had been referred to Dr Barbour first after my car accident. Not only did he give me a correct diagnosis my surgery almost immediately gave me relief from the pain that I had for six months!!! I feel like Dr Barbour gave me my life back!!!
Self-verified patient of Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on January 28th, 2016
Dr. Barbour is the most professional Doctor I have ever seen. I had a hip issue that I had seen several other doctors about. They kept sending me to physical therapy and telling me I just had a strain. Turns out I needed a hip surgery. He sat down and explained everything to me, did the surgery, and I have never felt better. Dr. Barbour is the epitome of a great doctor!
Self-verified patient of Dr. Scott A Barbour - Posted on October 6th, 2015
I made an appointment, picked the location because Dr. Barbour's office said they had x-ray capabilities, showed up for the appointment.......Dr. Barbour was no where to be found, met with two individyals that said they were Dr., Barbours Assistants, neither seem to know anything more than what could be found with a simple web search, there were no x-ray facilities in this office, they gave me an order for x-rays and an MRI and said make sure to come back on a day when Dr. Barbour was there??? Is there really ever a question as to whether the doctor will be there when you set up a Dr's appointment? I wasted (2) hours today, but I may have saved myself a lot of trouble down the road. Dr. Barbour will NOT perform my hip surgery.
This book's unique approach applies and modifies Maitland techniques to neural mobilization, refining and improving practical skills for clinical physiotherapists and physically-based occupational therapists. The text outlines the concept of neurodynamics and the basic mechanisms in movement of the nervous system and describes what can go wrong. Causal mechanisms are linked to diagnosis and treatment of pain and musculoskeletal problems in a systematic way. Various treatment techniques for each diagnostic category are presented and applied to specific clinical problems such as neck pain, headache, tennis elbow, carpal tunnel syndrome, low back pain to name a few. These are common problems in which therapists often miss a neural component. Table of Contents:1. General Neurodynamics2. Specific Neurodynamics3. General Neuropathodynamics4. Diagnosis of specific dysfunctions5. Diagnosis with Neurodynamic Tests6. Planning the Physical Examination7. Standard Neurodynamic Testing8. Method of treatment: systematic progression9. Cervical Spine10. Upper limb11. Lumbar Spine12. Lower LimbGlossaryIndex

Aggregate Crushers are classed by types and as primary crusher and secondary or tertiary reduction crushers, depending on where they are used in the aggregate ...
Outstanding Trio® compression and impact crushers get the job done. ... The Trio® range of screens consists of over 60 different models for the mining and aggregate ...
aggregate crushing value vs compressive strength of concrete ... aggregate shape with cone crushers vs impact crushers cost of crushed aggregate low profile ...
Quality impact crushers for sale from impact crushers suppliers - 26872 impact crushers manufacturers & wholesalers from China.
After your Denver property’s trees or shrubs have gone through a troubling time, causing them to grow weaker, they may become infected by the bark borer beetle. This beetle has been known to severely damage trees and shrubs throughout the United States and even parts of Canada. We make it our mission to help to prevent and manage your trees with our bark borer treatment options. Contact Lawn Doctor today, and we will make sure that one of our technicians shows up at your Denver home or business to inspect, apply preventative treatments, or help manage any infected foliage.
Request A Quote
What is a Bark Borer Beetle?
Bark Borer Treatment Options in Denver
Best Time for Bark Borer Treatment in Denver
What is a Bark Borer Beetle?
The bark borer beetle is an insect that lives beneath the bark of trees or shrubs on Denver properties. It is there that it hides, and it is their hiding spot that makes it difficult to manage them with simple insecticides. This pesky little beetle is a common insect that attacks conifers and even some broadleaf trees. Bark beetles mine the inner bark on twigs, branches, or trunks of trees and shrubs. They usually attack trees or shrubs that have grown weak. So, if you are concerned over Denver property’s tree or shrubs, contact Lawn Doctor for bark borer treatment. Bark beetles can contribute to the decline and eventual death of trees; however, only a few aggressive species are known to be the sole cause of tree mortality.
Bark Borer Treatment Options in Denver
If you have found that Bark Borer beetles have infected your Denver home or business property’s trees and shrubs, you should know of your treatment options. When it comes to bark borer treatments, there are cultural control, biological control, behavioral control, and chemical control options. Cultural control includes making sure you select the right trees and shrubs to plant on your Denver property and reducing the stress of the foliage by taking proper care of it.
Best Time for Bark Borer Treatment in Denver
If going through the chemical control avenue, you will want to consider preventative care options over reactive applications. The application of bark borer treatments after an infestation can often be ineffective. Due to the elevation, it is often best to apply bark borer treatments on Denver properties in late spring. Typically, one application on your Denver property per year can help with season-long control. However, if there are heavy rains, then a second application may be required for effective management against the bark borer beetle.
Tree & Shrub Insect Treatment & Control
Ash Borer Treatment
Bark Borer Treatment
Contact Lawn Doctor Today
Be sure to give us a call here at Lawn Doctor for all your lawn care and pest control needs. We believe that every residential and commercial property should have the best care available to them, which is why we provide year-round service to the Denver, CO area. We have made it our mission to provide premium landscape services throughout Denver, CO. No job is too large or too small. So, if you are looking for naturally based pest control treatments, or want an entirely new lawn, talk to us today!
How can we help?
Request A Quote Call (303) 936-8001 Areas We Serve
Lawn Doctor of Denver is a family-owned business offering a variety of lawn services including lawn care, tree care, pest control and more!
Affimed Enters into Collaboration with Merck to Evaluate AFM13 in Combination with KEYTRUDA® (pembrolizumab) for Patients with Hodgkin Lymphoma - Affimed
Home › Affimed Enters into Collaboration with Merck to Evaluate AFM13 in Combination with KEYTRUDA® (pembrolizumab) for Patients with Hodgkin Lymphoma
Heidelberg, Germany, January 25, 2016 -­ Affimed N.V. (Nasdaq: AFMD), a clinical stage biopharmaceutical company focused on discovering and developing highly targeted cancer immunotherapies, announced today that it has entered into a clinical research collaboration in immuno-­oncology with Merck (NYSE: MRK), known as MSD outside the United States and Canada. Under the terms of the agreement, Affimed will fund and conduct a Phase 1b clinical trial to investigate the combination of Merck's anti-­PD-­1 therapy, KEYTRUDA® (pembrolizumab), with Affimed's proprietary drug candidate AFM13 for the treatment of patients with Hodgkin lymphoma whose disease has relapsed or is refractory to chemotherapy, including treatment with the marketed antibody-­drug-­conjugate AdcetrisTM (brentuximab vedotin). Merck will supply Affimed with KEYTRUDA for the clinical trial. The purpose of the study is to establish a dosing regimen for this combination therapy and assess its safety and efficacy. Affimed is on track to initiate the study in the first half of 2016.
AFM13 is a bispecific antibody targeting CD30, an antigen specifically expressed in a variety of T-­ and B-­cell lymphomas and targeting CD16A, an antigen expressed on natural killer (NK-­) cells, which are important for the activation of the innate immune system and the subsequent killing of tumor cells. KEYTRUDA is a humanized monoclonal antibody that works by increasing the ability of the body's immune system to help detect and fight tumor cells. KEYTRUDA blocks the interaction between PD-­1 and its ligands, PD-­L1 and PD-­L2, thereby activating T lymphocytes, which may affect both tumor cells and healthy cells. In patient-­derived xenograft models, AFM13, in combination with an anti-­PD-­1 antibody, demonstrated impressive synergy, with up to 90 percent of the tumor eradicated. In this preclinical work, conducted at Stanford University, it was also shown that both NK-­ and T-­cells infiltrated the tumors and that cytokine levels, including notably interferon-­gamma, were elevated.
"Our development strategy is to combine our NK-­cell engagers with other immunotherapies that could enhance their efficacy through the uptake of both NK-­cells and T-­cells, and the collaboration with Merck is an important step in executing this strategy," said Dr. Adi Hoess, CEO of Affimed. "AFM13, a first-­in-­class NK-­cell engager, has shown an acceptable safety profile and preliminary antitumor activity in the first-­in-­human Phase 1 study. Additionally, preclinical studies indicate that a combination with an anti PD-­1 therapy could act synergistically and represent an additional future treatment option for patients."
"Evaluating the potential for innovative combination therapies through strategic collaborations in difficult-­to-­treat tumor types continues to be an important part of our clinical development program for KEYTRUDA," said Dr. Eric Rubin, vice president and therapeutic area head, oncology early-­stage development, Merck Research Laboratories. "In partnering with companies such as Affimed, we continue our efforts to bring forward new scientific breakthroughs for patients with Hodgkin lymphoma and the field of immuno-­oncology overall."
AFM13 is a first-­in-­class bispecific NK-­cell TandAb®, which binds NK-­cells (natural killer cells) specifically via CD16A and has a second binding domain for CD30, a cancer-­specific target. CD16A is expressed on NK-­cells, highly potent cytotoxic effector cells of the innate immune system, enabling AFM13 to selectively bind these effector cells. AFM13 redirects the NK-­cells to CD30 expressing cancer cells and binds both targets with high affinity, establishing a bridge, whereby the NK-­cells are activated and redirected to kill the cancer cells. AFM13 is designed to treat CD30-­positive malignancies including Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) and T-­cell lymphoma (TCL) and it is currently in Phase 2 studies in HL patients. Like all TandAbs®, AFM13 is a stable, off-­the-­shelf, targeted immunotherapeutic which does not require continuous infusion due to a favorable half-­life in a patient's bloodstream, yet is tunable by dosing adjustment when required. This highly specific NK-­cell antibody and the related bispecific platform are unique to Affimed.
Author: Asif Noor, MD; Chief Editor: Russell W Steele, MD
Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) is a tick-borne infection caused by an intracellular bacterium named Rickettsia rickettsii. RMSF is the most common rickettsial disease in the United States.[1] The hallmark of disease process is vasculitis. RMSF is a serious infection with a case-fatality rate of about 10% if left untreated.
The most widely used test is immunofluorescence assay (IFA). A 4-fold increase in titers is confirmatory between acute and convalescent stages (collected 2-6 weeks apart). A probable diagnosis can be made based on a single IFA titer of ≥1:64. The sensitivity is low in the first 10-12 days of illness. However, the test is 94% sensitive by 14-21 days.[3]
Profound hyponatremia is common. Several mechanisms have been postulated, including a shift in water from the intracellular spaces to the extracellular spaces; increased loss of sodium in the urine; and an exchange of sodium for potassium at the cellular level.[4]
Rocky Mountain spotted fever has been a nationally notifiable condition since the 1920s under the category of Spotted Fever Rickettsiosis (SFR). It has been reported in almost every state in the continental United States, with an age-related annual incidence of 0.5-3 cases per million population.[5] In 2000, 495 cases of SFR were reported, while in 2017, more than 6,248 cases were reported, a finding that has been attributed at least in part to increased awareness and testing for the disease, as the percentage of confirmed cases among the total reported, and the case-fatality rate, have both decreased.
Prior to 2000, Native Americans had rates of Rocky Mountain spotted fever similar to those of other races in the United States.[6] From 2001-2005, rates increased disproportionately (16.8 cases per million vs 0.5-4.2 cases per million for other races). The highest rates were in Oklahoma (113.1 cases per million).[7]
Darker-skinned individuals tend to have a worse clinical course, probably due to delays in recognizing the rash. Native American have higher rates of incidence, as well as worse outcomes. The annual incidence of Rocky Mountain spotted fever was 277.2 cases per million in the Southern plains, 104.6 cases per million in the East, and 49.4 cases per million in the Southwest regions.[8] Rates described through the national surveillance network are approximately 5-fold lower than those described in the review by Folkema et al.
The rash of Rocky Mountain spotted fever is an important pathognomonic feature of the disease and is present in 80-90% of patients. Rash begins as blanching maculopapular lesions. These lesions become petechial or purpuric in approximately one half of patients, accounting for the disease's former name of black measles.[9]
Serologic assays to detect anti–R rickettsii immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies are usually performed for definitive diagnosis.[10] Testing of acute-phase and convalescent-phase sera is recommended to demonstrate a 4-fold or higher increase in the titer.
CT imaging is typically normal, whereas MRI seems more sensitive at revealing abnormalities. Published findings include diffuse edema, effacement of the sulci, arterial infarctions, prominent perivascular spaces, and enhancement of the meninges (ie typical findings of meningoencephalitis). In a case series of 3 pediatric cases of Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) with encephalitis, scattered nonenhancing punctate lesions were described throughout the cerebral white matter, visible on T2- and diffusion-weighted MRI.[11, 12, 13]
Doxycycline is considered to be first-line treatment for both adults and children and should be started as soon as RMSF is suspected.[14] The use of any other antibiotics has been associated with a higher risk of death (see Table 2, below).
Doxycycline treatment is most effective at preventing death if it is started within the first 5 days after symptoms begin. As a result, doxycycline treatment should be started before the return of laboratory results and before the manifestation of severe symptoms, such as petechiae. If the patient is treated within the first 5 days of disease, fever generally subsides within 24-72 hours.[14]
The recommended dosage of doxycycline for RMSF has not been shown to cause staining of permanent teeth.[15]
Doxycycline is first-line treatment for both adults and children; antibiotics other than doxycycline increase the risk of death[14]
The best outcomes in Rocky Mountain spotted fever (RMSF) are achieved when treatment is started within 5 days of symptom onset. Doxycycline is the antibiotic of choice.
