Results 1 - 10 of 11 for Ivacaftor
Cystic Fibrosis/Start Here ... Cystic Fibrosis ... Cystic Fibrosis Foundation ... CF Basics ... Learn about cystic fibrosis, a genetic disorder that affects the lungs, pancreas, ...
https://www.cff.org/What-is-CF/About-Cystic-Fibrosis - External Health Links
Chronic Bronchitis/Start Here ... Chronic Bronchitis ... Acute Bronchitis/Start Here ... Acute Bronchitis ... National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ... Bronchitis is a condition ...
https://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/health-topics/bronchitis - External Health Links
COPD/Start Here ... COPD ... National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute ... COPD,COPD exacerbations,Emphysema,Chronic bronchitis,COPD and asthma ... Learn about symptoms, ...
Dictionary, Encyclopedia and Thesaurus - The Free Dictionary 12,002,664,553 visitors served
MODS: Multiple Organ Dysfunction Syndrome. TABLE 5: Multivariate regression analysis referring to MODS analyzing BMI, injury severity (ISS), and APACHE II score as potential predictors.
Mortality and worsening of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) occurred at virtually identical rates regardless of the strategy used, Dr.
United States : Genentech Announces FDA Grants Venclexta Accelerated Approval for People With Newly-Diagnosed Acute Myeloid Leukemia or Those Who Are Ineligible For Intensive Induction Chemotherapy
Physician / Neurology / Georgia / Permanent / Atlanta, GA Job - Atlanta jobs
Physician / Neurology / Georgia / Permanent / Atlanta, GA Job
Physician / Neurology / Atlanta, GA
Neurologist needed in Atlanta, Georgia. This metro Atlanta health system is seeking a Neurologist join the hospital network and practice General Neurology. Employment or net income guarantee options are available for negotiation with each practice and the health system.The health system is more than just a hospital. We are a not-for-profit health system, comprised of three hospital campuses. We are known for our premier clinical services, the latest technological advances and a caring and highly trained staff. The health system is a not-for-profit hospital system that receives no tax support from local, state or federal governments.With more than 800 doctors skilled in 55 medical specialties.The health system combines cutting-edge technology with compassion to effectively diagnosis and treat our patients. We are a leader in cancer and heart attack treatment. Growing with metro-Atlantas medical needs since 1961, our non-profit health system and Physician group are pushing beyond to excel in patient satisfaction, service and clinical quality.
Keywords: Murdock Consulting, Atlanta , Physician / Neurology / Georgia / Permanent / Atlanta, GA Job, Healthcare , Atlanta, Georgia
Swot analysis of a beauty salon Coursework Service
Swot analysis a swot analysis provides an in-depth look into the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats the "rethink beauty with monisola," campaign will create awareness about proper hair care and creating healthy habits through the guise of the natural hair movement. Our day spa swot analysis will provide you with the comprehensive documentation that you will need in order to determine the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats that your business will face as your develop or expand your business operations. L'oreal swot analysis uploaded by swot analysis strengths one of l'oreal's biggest strengths is their constant research and innovation in beauty. Sierra aitken bus 310 marketing swot analysis ulta salon, cosmetics & fragrance, inc introduction ulta salon, cosmetics & fragrance, inc was incorporated on january 9, 1990, and is now a major beauty retailer in the united states. Learn how to use business swot analysis to find your strengths and weaknesses, and the opportunities and threats you face includes template and example. Looking for salon swot analysis for those in the hair and beauty industry undertaking a salon swot analysis will yield positive results what does swot mean. A successful business is founded on a series of sound decisions, so the way you analyze situations and choose to react is essential when trying to assess the lay of the land, few tools are more useful than the swot analysis it stands for strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats the swot. Ebscohost serves thousands of libraries with premium essays, articles and other content including sally beauty holdings, inc swot analysis get access to over 12 million other articles.
Your salon marketing plan // lockhart meyer your hair or beauty your salon marketing plan // lockhart meyer salon marketing step two: do a swot analysis. Beauty salon spa marketing plan & ideas – a sample template do you want to boost your beauty salon & spa business revenue swot analysis. Read the complete exemplary swot analysis of the hair salon aphrodite which includes the description of the company, the evaluation of the factors, the detection of the relations, the evaluation of every strategy variant and the description of the strategy of the further procedures. Swot analysis of ulta salon, cosmetics fragrance, inc - strengths are large market and profitability full coverage of market, competition, external and internal factors. Loreal-company-profile-swot-analysis - 这一片高水平的关于loreal的swot分析,内容详实准确,数据都是来源于调查,分析的深刻到位 beauty and personal care baby.
Beauty salon - download represents the strength of the beauty salon businessand beauty be to create objective strategies based on the swot analysis. The situation analysis page cranium offers pricing that is a bit more than a traditional barber but far less than a dedicated women's hair salon swot analysis.
This is swot strategy analysis and objective researched alex's hair salon strategy analysis alex's beauty salon & proffesional hairstyles strategy. Swot analyses types consumers are becoming more demanding and experimental in the area of health and beauty pestle analysis for a health spa | pestle analysis. Pell research report for industry consultants, executives, and investors covering beauty salons industry statistics, market sizes, trends, forecasts, financial ratios, company data, and analysis. Check out our top free essays on swot analysis a beauty salon to help you write your own essay.
Ulta salon, cosmetics & fragrance is studied with its swot, segmentation, targeting, positioning and competition tagline and usp are also covered. Swot analysis including innovative • creamhairstyling is the only salon that offers a hair extension service in the area habia are the hair and beauty.
Swot analysis of beauty salon day spa tiffany gibson bus 210 september 12, 2011 pamperzhou day spa is the business plan that i chose for this assignment it follows what type of business that i want to open up that tends to the care of customers more. Essays - largest database of quality sample essays and research papers on swot analysis hair and beauty salon. Swot analysis prior to opening the salon gina didn't consider a swot analysis a swot analysis looks at a businesses current and forward-looking situation.
Sally beauty is studied with its swot analysis, segmentation, targeting, positioning and competition tagline and usp are also covered. Swot analysis of beauty hair salonpdf free download here l'oréal company profile swot analysis - euromonitor. Use this example salon swot analysis to help you define your salon salon marketing, salon promotion ideas marketing mobile beauty salon. Swot: analyze your business swot means you an exercise known in the business world as a "swot analysis" swot stands for your salon is not. What is a swot analysis it is a way of evaluating the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities, and threats that affect something see wikiwealth's swot tutorial for help remember, vote up the most important com.
The table above concludes the ulta salon, cosmetics & fragrance swot analysis along with its marketing and brand parameters. Swot analysis for hair salons this can include the background of the business organization or simply using a swot analysis a swot trend setters beauty salon. You need to be more than a great hairdresser to run a successful hair salon you need to be a great manager as a manager, you need to understand your salon's current business vitality and make plans to protect and increase it in the future the swot analysis is a tool that helps you do this by. This is swot strategy analysis and objective researched for west coast university class project.
Tele-Treatment | Pharmatherapist
It was 2010 I believe, when I first read the very few articles that had been published on the subject of e-therapy in mental health practice. I remember thinking how neat and cool it could be to interface with a client in real time via e-mail or videoconferencing. After these initial thoughts though, I dismissed it as something way off in the future, given the possible glitches that could easily arise, as well as the legal and ethical issues associated with HIPPA compliance and other privacy concerns.
Well, what strides we've made over the last 5 years! Technology has literally exploded in practically every area of our personal, social and professional lives. Facebook and Twitter dominate social media and tele-treatment is gaining momentum across all mental health disciplines.
The reasons for the proliferation of e-treatment are becoming clearer and clearer. Mental health professionals are increasingly in short supply. Simply, there are not enough of us to meet the growing demand for mental health services — particularly in rural settings across our country. Also, potential patients are becoming more aware of the time demands associated with trudging from appointment to appointment, with 30 percent of their time devoted to travel alone. And since our assessments and treatment plans don't entail physical contact with patients, tele-treatment is looking quite viable as an alternative to the traditional office visit.
So if you're contemplating starting up a tele-practice of some sort, here are some basic guidelines to get started:
– E-mail: Virtual private networks (VPNs) like Hot Spot Shield and Cloak facilitate your Internet traffic through an off-site private server. Cost is $3.00 per month and up depending upon choice.
– Texting: Apple iMessaging communications are encrypted if both parties exchanging messages are using an iPhone. Whats App is another option whereby both parties must download the app.
– Video: Your free options here are Skype, Google Hangouts and Apple FaceTime. These 3 are HIPPA compatible "enough," easy to use and protect well from data breaches. If you want even more protection, you can purchase a fully HIPPA-compatible system beginning at $30 per month and ranging up to $300 or more per month. Reputable choices include Cloudvisit and Secure Telehealth.
Check with you malpractice carrier. Most, but not all policies will cover you for tele-treatment, so verify of course.
Call your state board. A general rule of thumb is that you must be licensed in the state in which your potential patient resides. Some states with severe shortages of mental health clinicians have been known to grant special dispensations for e-treatment to out-of-state practitioners. And some state boards have not yet clarified their position on e-practice, so as with your malpractice insurance, find out how your state is handling this.
Make your current patients aware of this treatment option. This entails informing them that you're now offering tele-treatment as an alternative option, having them sign a tele-medicine consent document and providing them the requisite instructions for downloading or utilizing whatever platform you've agreed upon.
Insurance. Medicaid pays for electronic health services in most every state. Medicare reimburses if you are positioned in designated underserved areas of the country. As for private insurance, over 30 states reimburse somewhat. Call your patient's insurance company for parameters regarding payment.
Maintain integrity. Common sense and proper decorum would dictate the following: No shorts, tee shirts, and tank tops. Shoes required. And be aware of what's in your background, that is, what might the patient be seeing besides you that might not be appropriate or shouldn't be viewable.
Technology is here to stay and will become more and more refined, while marching relentlessly toward expansion into our personal and professional lives. Obviously some patients will eschew tele-health treatment in favor of a physical presence with their provider, while others, given the acuity of their presenting condition or circumstances, wouldn't be suitable candidates for e-services.
Nevertheless, these technologies help us to expand our reach to acquire and service clients we might not have otherwise ever encountered.
The Evidence Is In — One Size Does Not Fit All | Stuttering Foundation: A Nonprofit Organization Helping Those Who Stutter
By Marie-Christine Franken, Ph.D., Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands
The effectiveness of treatment for young children who stutter is very difficult to assess.
Like all medical conditions, more than one effective approach must be documented since no single treatment is likely to work for all children. The RESTART trial1 is the only head to head study so far, comparing two treatments for stuttering in pre-school children.
Up until now, only the Lidcombe Program (LP), a direct, behavioral treatment program, has shown efficacy in a Randomized Controlled Trial.2 Stuttering, however, is a highly complex communication disorder.
This largest treatment outcome study of stuttering children in history, conducted by Erasmus University Medical Center and Erasmus University Rotterdam in The Netherlands, is a powerful demonstration of what thorough steps need to be taken to come to an internationally accepted approach to evaluation of stuttering therapies and their long term effects.
In The Netherlands, treatment based on the Demands and Capacities Model (DCM) has remained the standard stuttering treatment for pre-schoolers since the 1980s. About thirty years ago, Drs. Jeanna and Glyndon Riley, C. Woodruff Starkweather, Edward Conture, and Hugo Gregory visited our country and taught us their treatment approach. The Dutch clinician, Els Versteegh-Vermeij (1917-2007), also inspired many Dutch clinicians to focus on the emotional aspects of stuttering.3 The approaches of all these professionals can be characterized as indirect DCM treatment. The direct, behavioral LP was introduced in the Netherlands in 2000 by Elisabeth Harrison and is therefore a relatively new treatment approach in The Netherlands.4 LP treatment is not included in the regular Dutch education of Speech Language Therapists, while DCM treatment is.
Our main research question was to compare the number of children treated by LP and DCM with no stuttering at 18 months after onset of treatment. Investigating our main research question would require us to include almost 200 young children who stuttered!
Such a large-scale study can only be done in a country where the primary education of clinicians is comparable with many clinicians and parents willing to participate. Also, it was mandatory that all participating clinicians agree on a DCM treatment protocol: DCM treatment can vary widely. Some clinicians practicing DCM treatment give recommendations to parents to talk slowly or to ask fewer questions; many others train parents to reduce motoric, linguistic or emotional demands; and not so many practice a full-blown DCM approach: reducing motoric, linguistic, emotional and cognitive demands, followed by increasing motoric, linguistic, emotional, and cognitive capacities - when deemed necessary.
Before the study started, the group of participating clinicians agreed on a highly structured protocol, called the RESTART DCM method.5
Twenty-four clinicians working in private practices throughout the Netherlands participated in this study. All participating clinicians were trained in both approaches. This was a conscious choice, enabling us to study the effectiveness of the two treatments per se, instead of the combination of treatments and clinicians.
The study showed that the RESTART DCM treatment for stuttering is just as effective as the Australian Lidcombe Program — 71.4% versus 75.5% of children with no stuttering at 18 months follow-up – not a statistically significant difference.
While the frequency of stuttering did decrease faster in the first three months in the Lidcombe Treatment group than in the DCM group, at the end of the study (18 months), the two groups showed equivalent outcomes (mean % Syllable Stuttered 1.2 for LP and 1.5 for DCM). This Dutch study not only compared the effectiveness of both therapies for stuttering after 18-month follow-up, doubling the 9-month follow-up for LP trials, but this includes four times as many children (199 versus 54).
This finding gives HOPE to parents and stuttering children that there are many ways to tackle this disabling condition before it becomes chronic.
Parents of children who stutter for whom treatment is recommended should be told that two approaches, a direct and indirect one, have been shown to be equally good in the longer term, and allowed to choose a treatment approach that will work for them. Most children will respond to treatment, but for those who are not responsive to a first treatment of choice, it is wonderful that another approach is available, with an overall comparable outcome.
The paucity of these types of studies underscores the desperate need for more work in this area, especially by teams not tied to the development of a specific approach.
1. De Sonneville-Koedoot de Sonneville-Koedoot C, Stolk E, Rietveld T, Franken M-C (2015) Direct versus Indirect Treatment for Preschool Children who Stutter: The RESTART Randomized Trial. PLoS ONE 10(7):e0133758. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0133758
2. Jones M, Onslow M, Packman A, Williams S, Ormond T, Schwarz I, et al. Randomised controlled trial of the Lidcombe programme of early stuttering intervention. BMJ (Clinical research ed) 2005 Sep 24;331(7518):659.
3. In memoriam Els Versteegh-Vermeij. https://docs.google.com/document/d/18Lmbs-x9T8MGkU9pZxADF4FVlEvZvqOUAD4sjikhpE/edit?pli=1
4. Onslow M, Packman A, Harrison E. The Lidcombe Program of Early Stuttering Intervention: A Clinician's Guide. Austin, Texas: Pro-ed; 2003.
5. Franken MC, Putker-de Bruijn D. RESTART-DCM Method. Treatment protocol developed within the scope of the ZonMW project Cost-effectiveness of the Demands and Capacities Model based treatment compared to the Lidcombe programme of early stuttering intervention: Randomised trial [Internet]. 2014 [cited 2015, January 10]. Available from: http://www.nedverstottertherapie.nl/
Health promotion and prevention levels essay | Term paper Writing Service yahomeworkinma.designheroes.us
Health promotion offers solutions to many of the health problems facing society such as obesity, lack of exercise and smoking though developing skills and knowledge, community action, supportive environments, healthy public policy and health services. All three levels of health promotion prevention (primary, secondary, and tertiary) are described in detail approach is grounded in rationale describing in detail why it is the most effective for the needs of the minority group. Essay on health promotion levels of health promotion health promotion is essential in keeping society and individuals healthy health promotion empowers communities and individuals for healthy living through education the primary goal of health promotion is prevention nurses are key in health promotion and will be seen in diverse. Health three levels of promotion health and social care essay codes get deal the three levels of health promotion include primary, secondary, and tertiary all levels are equally important and key in preventing disease and providing starting points for health care providers to offer patients positive, effective change. "health is defined as a state of physical, mental and social well being and not merely the absence of disease or infirmity" (who) like wise health promotion is the process of increasing the functional capacity of all people hence promote the sense of well-being.
Nutrition and health promotion essay examples nutrition and mental health go 2 for 5 and beyond blue question 1: go 2 for 5 is a health promotion initiative that focuses on improving and maintaining the health of australians by promoting them to eat, on average, 5 servings of vegetables and 2 servings of fruit per day (adult measurements, children measurements depend on their age. Health promotion health promotion is a method of helping people to improve and increase their health (world health organization, nd) it encompasses a combination of health education and related organizations, political and economic changes aimed at improving health. 5) compare the three levels of health promotion prevention this assignment uses a grading rubric instructors will be using the rubric to grade the assignment therefore, students should review the rubric prior to beginning the assignment to become familiar with the assignment criteria and expectations for successful completion of the assignment.
Health promotion essay essay on health promotion in nursing practice levels of health promotion health promotion is essential in keeping society and individuals healthy health promotion empowers communities and individuals for healthy living through education the primary goal of health promotion is prevention nurses are key in. Therefore, this essay seeks to expound on the role of health promotion in the nursing practice, the evolution of nursing practice in health practice, and comparison of the three levels of health promotion. This site is coordinated by the office of disease prevention and health promotion, office of the assistant secretary for health, office of the secretary, us department of health and human services office of disease prevention and health promotion [email protected] (kemppainen, tossavainen, & turunen, 2013) this paper will focus on health promotion in the nursing practice through literature review, the evolution of nursing roles and responsibilities in health promotion, the implementation methods for health promotion that encompasses all areas of nursing, and the three levels of health promotion prevention. Implements policies and programs that enhance the conditions within which healthy development takes place addresses healthy child development, active living, family violence prevention, aging, population health, healthy living, as well as issues related to rural health.
(e) compare the three levels of health promotion prevention iii) refer to literature review grading rubric in the course resource folder iv) use standard essay format in apa style, including an introduction, conclusion, and title page. Health promotion among diversity hispanic or latino, native hawaiian, or pacific islander) in an essay of 750-1,000 words, compare and contrast the health status of the minority group you have selected to the national average describe at least one approach using the three levels of health promotion prevention (primary, secondary, and. Introduction this assignment proposes to discuss the role of the nurse in health promotion to facilitate the discussion in the delivery of primary, secondary and tertiary levels of health promotion, the health risk of tobacco smoking in relation to lung cancer has been chosen. Describe at least one approach using the three levels of health promotion prevention (primary, secondary, and tertiary) that is likely to be the most effective given the unique needs of the minority group you have selected.
- obesity prevention for health promotion and risk reduction diabetes: american indians in cook county in united states, type 2 diabetes is a major public health priority due to its high prevalence, nationwide incidence, and long-term health implications for the population of the united states. Describe at least one approach using the three levels of health promotion prevention (primary, secondary, and tertiary) that is likely to be the most effective given the unique needs of the. Select and review three recent (published within the last 5 years) journal articles (one of each of the primary, secondary, and tertiary levels of health promotion) in nursing practice prepare an essay (750-1,000) words in which you review and compare the.
The term 'health promotion' was coined in 1945 by henry e sigerist, the great medical historian, who defined the four major tasks of medicine as promotion of health, prevention of illness, restoration of the sick and rehabilitation. The process of health promotion works in all settings and sectors where people live, work, play and love a common setting is the workplace work site health focus on the prevention and the intervention that reduce the health risks of the employee. Abstract nurses play an important role in promoting public health traditionally, the focus of health promotion by nurses has been on disease prevention and changing the behaviour of individuals with respect to their health.
The american journal of health promotion defines health promotion as the science and art of assisting people in adjusting their lifestyle to move toward a state of optimal health, this is a balance between different dimensions including physical, emotional, social, spiritual, and intellectual health (o'donnell, 2009. Three levels of prevention essay - 742 words codes get deal levels of prevention the three levels of prevention in the community settings are primary prevention, secondary prevention and tertiary preventionwith these three levels of prevention it helps the individual, the people and the community to attain better and good health first the primary prevention, which focus mainly on health. Health promotion and prevention of diabetes mellitus diabetes mellitus has become a growing community health issue as it has climbed to the seventh leading cause of death among americans (us dept of health and human services, 2012.
Welcome to OLGA -- the most comprehensive source of information about questionnaires, rating scales and other tools for assessing psychosocial effectiveness in clinical and pharmacoeconomic studies
OLGA's unique features provide quick answers to questions such as:
Is there a valid quality-of-life instrument available for use in a clinical trial of obese patients?
How has quality of life been measured in clinical trials of persons with hypertension within the past five years?
What effectiveness measures are most commonly used in pharmacoeconomic studies?	
OLGA guides the selection of the optimal assessment strategy through:
decision-logic software and related database developed especially to meet quality-of-life and pharmacoeconomic research needs, and
personal contact with quality-of-life experts on an as-needed basis.
Thus, use of OLGA reduces the risk of including inappropriate quality-of-life endpoints in the drug approval process.
A major U.S. pharmaceutical company estimates that using OLGA has saved as much as 80 percent of the development time and other resources needed to identify and evaluate assessment options for use in clinical research. OLGA saves time and money by quickly identifying measures of treatment effectiveness for use in clinical and pharmacoeconomic studies. Within minutes, OLGA summarizes the development and application of all instruments that are available for use with patients diagnosed with a given indication, e.g., asthma.
OLGA data are important for:
identifying quality-of-life endpoints suitable for use in Phase II and III clinical trials, and
documenting the scientific basis--including validity and reliability--for selecting these endpoints in an FDA-approved format.
OLGA services:
cover worldwide research,
are available when you need them,
work tirelessly, and
provide consistent, reliable results.
OLGA's Unique Features
Key components of OLGA allow clients to identify the most appropriate measures of quality of life and health outcomes for use in clinical trials and economic analyses, and to conduct these scientific inquiries in ways that meet regulatory agency approval.
OLGAssessments: User mini-manuals that describe content, scoring, and measurement properties--including validity and responsiveness--of all major quality-of-life instruments. These summaries are routinely updated and include:
contact and copyright information,
accumulated evidence of instrument validity,
tables of reliability coefficients,
review versions of instruments, and
instrument-specific bibliographies.
OLGArefs: Empirical studies cross-referenced on various parameters, with indexing of all questionnaires, rating scales and other assessment tools.
OLGArithms: A decision-theoretic model that evaluates conceptual and practical considerations of each instrument according to investigator-supplied study parameters.
Tutorial: A guide for selecting a quality-of-life assessment strategy for use in clinical trials, clinical practice, or individual pharmacoeconomic studies.
Glossary: A comprehensive list of terms and definitions used in quality-of-life assessment and pharmacoeconomic analysis.
A new set of guidelines stresses the importance of treating the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and tuberculosis (TB) at the same time in co-infected patients.
People with the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) already have compromised immune systems, which is why they're especially susceptible to conditions such as tuberculosis (TB). A new set of guidelines stresses the importance of treating both of these diseases at the same time in co-infected patients.
The most recent TB guidelines were issued in 2003 and, at that time, people with HIV typically didn't start antiretroviral therapy (ART) until their TB treatment was finished. However, as evidence consistently reiterates, early ART therapy provides a slew of benefits — for both patients and their partners. Published in the journal Clinical Infectious Diseases, new recommendations for the simultaneous treatment of HIV and TB have been developed by the American Thoracic Society (ATS), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), and Infectious Diseases Society of America (IDSA).
"Research shows that all patients with TB and HIV should receive treatment for both conditions, with HIV treatment beginning within eight to 12 weeks of the start of TB therapy. Some patients may need HIV treatment even sooner," Payam Nahid, MD, MPH, lead author of the guidelines and professor of medicine at the University of California, said in a news release.
Related: Dr. David Rosenthal Discusses Looking at the Future of HIV from Diagnosis to Cure
If a patient does not receive ART during TB treatment, the authors say that TB treatment should be given for eight months or more in order to cut the risk of relapse. The team took special cases into consideration, however, as the guidelines say that people with HIV who are infected with tuberculous meningitis may need to have delayed ART.
The guidelines also address the comprehensive care (case management) of all patients with TB. This includes directly observed therapy (DOT) in which a healthcare provider observes the patient taking each medication dose during a six-month treatment regimen. The authors said that this ensures that treatment is effective and helps improve success.
"Case management, including DOT and patient education and counseling, is vital to reducing the risk of non-adherence to treatment, and consequently the risks of TB relapse, drug-resistance and other illnesses. We now have clear evidence to show that the benefits of case management are real," explained Philip LoBue, MD, director of the Division of Tuberculosis Elimination (DTBE) at the CDC in Atlanta.
Of the 9.6 million people infected with TB worldwide in 2014, 1.5 million died, according to data released by the CDC. The number of TB cases rose slightly in 2015.
"Data from numerous trials have made it very clear that patients with HIV should begin treatment with anti-retroviral therapy (ART) during TB treatment, and not wait until after TB therapy is completed," Nahid said.
Precision Therapeutics, Formerly Skyline Medical, Announces Stock Ticker Symbol Change to AIPT | Precision Therapeutics Inc.
Change in ticker symbol reflects Company's market positioning as leaders in the AI for precision medicine market
MINNEAPOLIS, Feb. 02, 2018 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Precision Therapeutics Inc, formerly Skyline Medical Inc, (NASDAQ:SKLN) (NASDAQ:AIPT) ("Precision Therapeutics" or the "Company"), is pleased to announce that its NASDAQ Capital Market ticker symbol will change from 'SKLN' to 'AIPT' effective February 2, 2018. The new symbol has been chosen to align the Company's symbol with its new name, Precision Therapeutics, which better reflects the Company's new strategic focus on applying artificial intelligence to precision medicine and drug discovery.
"Precision Medicine is a fast-growing field of healthcare that considers a patient's genes, lifestyle, and environment in the development of effective therapies to treat disease," Dr. Carl Schwartz commented. "It has a wide range of potential applications, including for the treatment of cancer, and has been hailed as ushering in a new generation of treatments and diagnostics. We are excited to participate in the growth of this market which, according to research from Global Market Insights, is estimated to grow at 10.5% CAGR to reach $96 billion by 2024. Changing our name, and now our ticker symbol, emphasizes our market positioning as an invaluable support service to this revolutionary area of the healthcare market."
Precision Therapeutics' mission is to improve the effectiveness of cancer therapy using the power of artificial intelligence (AI) applied to rich data diseases databases. Through its 20% equity stake in Helomics®, the Company has access to a diagnostic platform that generates rich molecular profiles and drug response data from the patient's own tumor. Using an AI-based bioinformatics platform (D-CHIP™), the data is analyzed and provides a precision oncology roadmap for the patient and their oncologist. Precision Therapeutics will participate in earnings generated from pharmaceutical companies that use the Helomics platform when developing new therapies e.g. Next Generation Sequencing (NGS). The D-CHIP platform continually learns the association between the DNA alterations and the drug response of the patient's tumor, generating actionable knowledge that is of great value to Pharma companies as they develop new therapies. Access to this knowledge and any lab services is offered through its Contract Research (CRO) business.
Dr. Schwartz continued, "We believe our offering is rapidly becoming seen as vital to the development of better and more personalized treatments and diagnostic technologies. We plan to build on the foundation provided by Helomics to drive both diagnostic and CRO revenues. Our growth strategy includes securing new partnerships and considering acquisitions in the precision medicine space, such as additional molecular tests for cancer and other diseases, companion diagnostics, microbiome assessment and other technologies, to add data to the D-Chip platform and drive new clients in the pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and biotech sectors."
Precision Therapeutics' CRO services business is committed to improve the effectiveness of cancer therapy using the power of artificial intelligence (AI) applied to rich data diseases databases. This business has launched with Precision Therapeutics' investment in Helomics Corporation, a precision diagnostic company and integrated clinical contract research organization whose mission is to improve patient care by partnering with pharmaceutical, diagnostic, and academic organizations to bring innovative clinical products and technologies to the marketplace. In addition to its proprietary precision diagnostics for oncology, Helomics offers boutique CRO services that leverage our patient-derived tumor models, coupled to a wide range of multi-omics assays (genomics, proteomics and biochemical), and a proprietary bioinformatics platform (D-CHIP) to provide a tailored solution to our client's specific needs. Helomics is 20% owned by Precision Therapeutics. Helomics® is headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania where the company maintains state-of-the-art, CLIA-certified, clinical and research laboratories. For more information, please visit: www.Helomics.com. Precision Therapeutics and Helomics have also announced a proposed joint venture with GLG Pharma focused on using their combined technologies to bring personalized medicines and testing to ovarian and breast cancer patients, especially those who present with ascites fluid (over one-third of patients). The growth strategy in this business includes securing new partnerships and considering acquisitions in the precision medicine space.
Sold through the Skyline Medical business of Precision Therapeutics, The STREAMWAY System virtually eliminates staff exposure to blood, irrigation fluid and other potentially infectious fluids found in the healthcare environment. Antiquated manual fluid handling methods that require hand carrying and emptying filled fluid canisters present an exposure risk and potential liability. Skyline Medical's STREAMWAY System fully automates the collection, measurement and disposal of waste fluids and is designed to: 1) reduce overhead costs to hospitals and surgical centers; 2) improve compliance with OSHA and other regulatory agency safety guidelines; 3) improve efficiency in the operating room, and radiology and endoscopy departments, thereby leading to greater profitability; and 4) provide greater environmental stewardship by helping to eliminate the approximately 50 million potentially disease-infected canisters that go into landfills each year in the U.S. For additional information, please visit www.skylinemedical.com.
