Home Rx Pharmacy > Amoxicillin to treat acne >
Discussion in 'Rx Pharmacy' started by Lerusha, 23-Dec-2019.
Cheap alternative to lisinopril Amoxicillin over counter walgreens Zoloft hallucinations Viagra with dapoxetine buy uk
Nov 2, 2018. There are many cleansers and soaps advertised for treating acne. topical antibiotics aren't recommended alone as an acne treatment. Her doctor told her that her acne looked like it might be cystic and advised her that an antibiotic was likely the only treatment that would give her. Jul 2, 2018. Years ago antibiotics were used to treat acne because it was thought that the condition was an infectious disease, says Dr. Hilary Baldwin of.
Antibiotics for Acne How Much Is Too Much? – Health Essentials., Acne & Antibiotics Why I Regret Not Speaking with my Doctor.
Acne treatment antibiotics don't need to kill bacteria to clear up your..
Avoid antibiotics for acne treatment when possible Dermatology..
Dec 27, 2018. For moderate to severe acne, you may need oral antibiotics to reduce bacteria and fight inflammation. Usually the first choice for treating acne. Mar 14, 2018. In some cases the antibiotics used to treat acne may cause headaches. If you think any medications are causing headaches, particularly if they. Antibiotics for acne Ampicillin used to be prescribed for treating acne, but because of antibiotic resistance, other treatments would be a better choice.
Site URL, 23-Dec-2019 16:02
We have been working extensively with a franchise company to increase online marketing, visibility and digital sales and marketing in general for the franchise company and their franchisees. We Started off by working with the franchise company in Wellington to increase sales, within 3 months they sales performance jumped by 161% by using one of our strategies. We normally work with what we call the perfect customer life-cycle to determine the strengths and weaknesses of the business. We then set out to improve in all of these areas and provide solutions and tools to maximise efficiency and productivity. We split each category of the business into the following areas: SEM We were able to get HABi T Wellington to the top of Google within 12 hours of implementing a search engine campaign. This bought in instant results and while we this campaign was in place we were working hard to get their site ranked in the organic SERPS. SEO We then worked on their national exposure to increase inspections enquiries from a national perspective. Generic Viagra, Purchase cheap generic Viagra Online High Quality Order generic viagra, viagra shops - Clotuk Pill Shop. Cheap Prices! Order viagra generic 100 mg 50 mg 25 mg
Cedexhibe, 13-Dec-2019 06:42
Diabetes Medicine Metformin - Diabetes Self-Management Diabetes Medicine Metformin. we'll focus on one of the most commonly prescribed diabetes pills metformin. HIV and AIDS, and respiratory problems can cause.
ServerSeek, 19-Dec-2019 14:37
Zoloft Mechanism Of Action BestPrice! Zoloft Mechanism Of Action OnlinePharmacyworldwidestore best ED products - Generic Levitra, Tadalafil Cialis, Vardenafil levitra with lowest price and high quality
Is the humble crocus a cancer cure | World of Health
15th September 2011 13th April 2017 Cancer
Research into cancer treatments is a continual and ongoing process and the hope of an effective cure is the wish of every cancer research technologist. Recent research has highlighted the healing possibilities of an autumn flower, the crocus and researchers will start clinical trials with a new treatment derived from this flower. Cancerous tumours will be targeted specifically in the trials.
This new chemical treatment, known as colchicine, was used in the successful treatment of mice suffering from a number of different types of cancer. In most cases the cancer was completely eliminated.
The research has been carried out by a team from The Institute for Cancer Therapeutics, ICT, from Bradford University and the results published in the Cancer Research journal. The results have also been presented at the British Science Festival, held in Bradford.
The Autumn crocus, also known as naked lady and meadow saffron, had been used in early times for the treatment of inflammation. It contains a powerful chemical, colchicine, which has strong medicinal properties as well as cancer fighting agents. Colchicine is toxic to cancer but it is also harmful to other body tissue so its use has been limited until now.
The colchicine molecule has now been altered by the ICT researchers and it now remains inactive in the body until it reaches the tumour. Once it makes contact with the tumour, the chemical reactivates and causes the blood vessels feeding the tumor to break up, thereby starving the tumour.
Tumours produce enzymes which break down healthy cells around it. In this way the tumour spreads. The adapted colchicine molecule contains a protein that renders it harmless. The tumour enzyme attacks this protein and eradicates it thereby activating the colchicine and the starvation process of the cancer cells begins.
The drug will only be active in the tumour and will not damage any normal tissue. It may be possible to treat cancers with hardly any side effects to the body as the enzyme needed to activate the poisonous colchicines is only produced in solid tumours. Whenever the enzyme is produced the drug is activated.
The results of this research are most encouraging and only one dose of colchicine produced a very positive response. All the mice responded to the treatment and the majority of them were cured of cancer. Researchers hope the clinical testing at St. James Hospital will commence within the next 12 to 18 months.
In an interview, Bradford University Spokesman, Professor Patterson, stated that caution should be exercised as everything done to date has been carried out in the laboratory but he is nonetheless optimistic about the treatment opportunities. The project is at an early stage but the results look promising.
In Brazil, 47% of adults do not meet the minimum weekly physical activity suggested by the WHO. Inactive people have an increased risk of various heart diseases and certain cancers.
Staying seated for long periods impairs blood flow to the brain. This can slow our thoughts, and increase the chance of neurodegenerative diseases.
New research has shown that in addition to the benefits to physical health, moving more—and being less sedentary— can benefit your psychological health and increase happiness.
Recent research studies showed that many hours sitting per day can increase your risk of suffering from colon cancer, as well as having a bigger waist and a worse cholesterol profile.
In the last several years an entire new discipline of medical science has arisen, called “inactivity physiology”. Researchers in this…
In fact, in early 1989, researchers believed that dog's nose could actually detect cancer cells. But Peter Boeker, a gas detection expert at the University, says, "I do not know exactly what a dog is reacting to." Almost thirty years later, researchers know that certain odors change the behavior of dogs.
Carl Schmanski, MD, and his team at the University Hospital in Darmstadt, Germany, will reveal this through a study of 600 volunteers and 140 of them diagnosed with lung or bowel cancer.
They will analyze breath, urine, and stool samples and isolate the different substances and molecules that characterize cancer patients and study where the trained drug-detecting dogs respond. I hope to finally find out the molecules associated with cancer.
The aim of this study, however, is not to train dogs to better detect cancer, but to discover the presence of cancer through smells by making dog's ability more reliable.
It would be good if the drug detectors could detect cancer instead of an X-ray tester that could visit a hospital and cause cancer through radiation.
But Skimannsky said dog training is time consuming and it is almost impossible to train as many dogs as needed for cancer screening programs around the world. A researcher at the Kremers University Hospital in Austria also said the dog is not a machine and we do not want to depend on someone's life for dogs.

This 8" x 8" Vinyl graphic can be put on almost anything, and when you want to move it to a different location just peel off and re apply to your new location.
Meet the speakers: Professor John Rogers
John works a Consultant in Sport and Exercise Medicine at University Hospital South Manchester, Withington Community Hospital and also works as Chief Medical Officer to British Triathlon. He has a particular interest in endurance sport.
John's interest in Sport and Exercise Medicine developed when he was competing as a middle distance runner through his 20s and early 30s. He is passionate about helping others achieve their full potential through sport, exercise and physical activity. He trained and worked as a GP in Manchester before completing specialist training in Sport and Exercise Medicine in the London and Yorkshire Deaneries.
His first consultant post was with the lower limb rehabilitation team at the Defence Military Rehabilitation Centre, Headley Court in Surrey. He worked as a Medical Officer to British Athletics at St Mary's University and then at their National Performance Institute in Loughborough between 2008 and 2013 where he worked mainly with endurance athletes. The high prevalence of Overtraining Syndrome in this group stimulated a clinical interest in this area. He was Team Doctor to the British Paralympic Athletics Team in 2013 and was Chief Medical Officer to Team GB for the Youth Olympic Games in 2014. He is a visiting Professor and co-programme leader for a new MSc in Sport and Exercise Medicine at Manchester Metropolitan University.
John will deliver a talk on 'Overtraining Syndrome – Physical or Mental Health Problem?'. He will discuss the clinical presentation, diagnosis and management of this condition and the associated mental health impact.
Why should you attend the Conference – John says….
If you work in sport then there is a very high likelihood that you will be working with athletes suffering with various mental health problems. Recognising an athlete who needs help with a mental health problem and managing their care can be difficult. This conference may have a direct impact in how you identify, care for and manage such athletes. It provides a great opportunity to stimulate your interest in this growing area so that collectively we can move forward in providing better care for the athletes we work with.
Why is the Mental Health of Athletes important? John explains……
Mental health problems in athletes are common. They can cause significant distress for athletes and their families and very sadly in some cases can even result in suicide. Athletes often act as role models and can inspire us all to increased levels of sporting participation which can in turn have an impact on the health of the population as a whole.
Tags: Connell H
Chronic pain in adolescents: evaluation of a programme of interdisciplinary cognitive behaviour therapy
Aim: To determine the effectiveness of an interdisciplinary cognitive behavioural treatment for adolescents with chronic pain. METHODS: Fifty seven adolescents (mean age 14.28 years) with chronic pain and 57 accompanying adults underwent an…
Tags: 2003, Absenteeism, Adolescent, Adult, Archives of Disease in Childhood, Backlog, Child, Chronic Disease, Clinch J, Cognitive Therapy/methods, Connell H, Eccleston C, Family Therapy/methods, Female, Health Status Indicators, Humans, Journal Article, Male, Malleson PN, Pain Measurement, Pain/rehabilitation, Patient Care Team, Program Evaluation, Psychiatric Status Rating Scales, Schools/statistics & numerical data, Sourbut C, Treatment Outcome
Chronic musculoskeletal and other idiopathic pain syndromes
Tags: 2001, Adolescent, Archives of Disease in Childhood, Attitude To Health, Backlog, Bennett SM, Child, Chronic Disease, Cognitive Therapy, Connell H, Eccleston C, Female, Humans, Journal Article, Male, Malleson PN, Musculoskeletal Diseases/complications/psychology/therapy, Pain/etiology/psychology/therapy, Parent-child Relations, Patient Care Team, Risk Factors, Syndrome
Falling or being in love can have a significant emotional impact on you. But did you know that it can also physically affect your heart? Below are a few things your heart experiences when you fall in love.
Chemical Attraction
When you first notice someone that you are attracted to, the chemicals in your body get to work within seconds. Dopamine, phenethylamine and oxytocin are released into the bloodstream and pumped throughout the body by your heart. These chemicals ensure your senses are alert, and encourage bonding and attachment. As you get physically and emotionally closer, actions like hugging increase those secretions, and dopamine has links to feelings of desire and euphoria.
Testosterone also plays a role in attracting someone. When you are physically engaged, the testosterone released in the bloodstream passes across with bodily contact, which encourages bonding. Acts of affection such as kissing has been shown to lower cholesterol levels through hormone release, leading to a healthier heart.
Beating Hearts
Falling in love triggers the fight or flight reaction in the body. Epinephrine and norepinephrine are released into the bloodstream when the adrenal medulla in the brain releases catecholamines. This triggers the heart to beat faster and that is why you can feel it pumping away when you are attracted to someone. This reaction diverts blood to the essential organs such as your heart and away from others like your stomach. It explains why falling in love can make you lose your appetite. Norepinephrine is a stress hormone so when it is released into your bloodstream it can also make you feel weak at the knees.
Blood Pressure
With all those hormones and excitement, one might assume your blood pressure would be raised to the limit. But the effect of being in a loving relationship on your blood pressure actually lowers and normalizes your readings. Experiments have shown that hugging someone that you are in a loving relationship with actually lowers the blood pressure, whereas an unhealthy relationship can have the opposite effect. When someone gets that loving feeling through hugging, it triggers the release of oxytocin. This promotes a feeling of bonding and togetherness.
Healthy Togetherness
Social isolation and loneliness are linked to cardiovascular problems. Being lonely is connected to hardening of the arteries and plaque formation. It also leads to raised blood pressure levels, which can result in a stroke or heart disease. The action of hugging helps reduce blood pressure and is an excellent reason to nurture a special relationship.
The positive physical effects on the heart and circulation when you are falling in love go beyond a simple attraction to someone. They actually help people live healthier lifestyles.
Sources:
http://articles.latimes.com/2013/nov/25/science/la-sci-sn-oxytocin-monogamy-20131125
http://www.scq.ubc.ca/is-there-a-neurochemical-basis-for-falling-in-love/
https://www.psychologytoday.com/blog/fulfillment-any-age/201207/the-kiss-health
http://www.nel.edu/pdf_/26_3/260305A13_15990734_Esch–Stefano_.pdf
http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/15206831
http://www.npr.org/templates/story/story.php?storyId=128795325
http://www.livescience.com/697-loneliness-kills-study-shows.html
Read Also
Wellness Can meditation really help reduce pain? Jun 22, 2020
Wellness How to prevent and get rid of tension headaches May 11, 2020
Wellness 3 ways to prevent work-from-home back pain Apr 27, 2020
Virtual Care
Insurance
FAQ
Blog
Careers
Contact Us
Terms of Use
Editorial Policy
Online Services Privacy Policy
Notice of Privacy Practices
©2021 Orthology. All Rights Reserved.
Orthology Inc. is a management company that provides administrative and business support services to its affiliated practices. As a management company, Orthology Inc. does not provide or supervise the provision of care at its affiliated practices. There is no single provider of care called “Orthology.” Each practice affiliated with Orthology is a separate business entity and may be independently owned and operated by a licensed health care professional to the extent required by applicable state law. Control over the care provided is the sole responsibility of the practices and the licensed professionals they employ. Services and office practices may vary across practices, and patients should contact the practices directly for all questions concerning their treatment.
Join Rachel Gerson, MD (Radiology), for a conversation about how to implement innovative concepts and products into clinical practices and the systemic realities of health care.
Dr. Rachel Gerson is a board certified radiologist with expertise in musculoskeletal radiology and women’s imaging with more than a decade of clinical experience. She has worked in highly diverse clinical settings including teleradiology and internationally. Dr. Gerson is particularly interested in health care innovation and solving system wide problems in health care in the areas of quality, data and communications. She is also interested in artificial intelligence and its applications in radiology.
Lessons Learned About Options | IFF
Heart disease has been identified as most common disease for those above 50. Obesity, high blood pressure, smoking and abnormally high cholesterol levels are some of the associated causes. The principal symptoms of heart ailments are highlighted as palpitations, heavy chest feelings and shortage of breath. The best thing to do once any of these symptoms are recognized is to seek for urgent medical attention to help curb the effects.
For those adults aged 20-25 years, this has been noted as among the biggest health threat. Since the population of today's males largely lies within this group, it is a cause for concern. Signs of esophageal cancer comprise painless lumps and heaviness in the testicles. Regular checks are advised to identify the problem early.
This problem is not as common as the previous two but is noteworthy as the rest. Cancer of the penile can be dangerous but easily preventable by circumcision and keeping hygiene. Thick skin around the penile, odor from beneath the foreskin, and ulcers point to this problem.
Men are four times more likely to commit suicide than women at all age groups in the US. Additionally, an approximate 30 percent of men in the country have at some point been depressed. Recognizing depression early is essential in getting the perfect aid from a therapist. A number of these known indications are the absence of concentration, being sad, losing concentration in exactly what one previously loved, fatigue and suicidal thoughts.
Also referred to as rectal cancer, this condition is common for guys aged over 60. The most alarming sign of rectal cancer is signs of blood in the stool. Should this be the case for such individuals, a prompt visit to a doctor is recommended. It is often known as a silent killer and apart from assessing stool for signs of blood, awareness of bowel changes, movements, and discomfort in the lower abdomen are encouraged.
Diabetes is often divided into type 1 and type 2. Diabetes type 2 has been rising for most men and women equally. Unfortunately, most men seek for treatment after developing complications. Typical signs of type 2 diabetes include blurry vision, faintness, fatigue and dehydration. With diet intake and significant exercise, it's possible if identified early on to treat. On the other hand, if left for a long time, lifetime medication is inevitable.
You should take the necessary steps after noting any of the signs highlighted. Ensuring that you visit a doctor or qualified medical professional will ease the worry and enable you to get the care and attention required to manage the problem.
Free Living Ameba Testing at CDC [PDF – 1 page]
Diagnostic Tests Offered by CDC
Initial testing: CSF typically demonstrates a predominantly lymphocytic pleocytosis with typically fewer than 500 cells/mm3 1. CSF glucose concentration may be normal or low. There is usually a marked elevation of protein concentration (increasing from normal or mildly elevated early in the clinical course to >1000 mg/dL) 2,3. Balamuthia organisms are rarely seen in the CSF 3,4.
Balamuthia Case definition: In 2011, the Council of State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE) established a standard case definition for Balamuthia infections 5. Laboratory-confirmed Balamuthia infection is defined as the detection of Balamuthia as:
Tests available: Diagnostic testing is not widely available for Balamuthia infection. Clinicians who suspect Balamuthia infection should contact their state health department and/or CDC (24/7 Emergency Operation Center—770-488-1700). CDC can assist with diagnosis and provide treatment recommendations. Telediagnosis can be arranged at CDC by emailing photos through DPDx, CDC's telediagnosis tool. Instructions for submitting photos through DPDx are available at the DPDx Contact Us page.
CSF: Balamuthia trophozoites and/or cysts are rarely seen in the CSF. Every effort should be made to obtain brain tissue in order to make the diagnosis of Balamuthia GAE. If Balamuthia is identified in the CSF, the diagnosis of GAE should be subsequently confirmed with PCR or immunohistochemical tests of the CSF because host cells can be mistaken for Balamuthia. Note that a negative test on CSF does not rule out Balamuthia infection because the organism is not commonly present in the CSF.
Tissue: The diagnosis of Balamuthia infection can be made by microscopic examination of tissue sections from biopsy specimens (skin lesions or brain tissue) stained with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) or periodic acid-Schiff (PAS)6 which might demonstrate trophozoites and/or cysts with morphology typical of Balamuthia (Figures A–D).
The cysts of Balamuthia mandrillaris are 6–30 µm in diameter (Figure A and B).Under a light microscope, the cysts appear to have two walls: a wrinkled fibrous outer wall (exocyst) and an inner wall (endocyst) that may be hexagonal, spherical, star-shaped or polygonal.Refractile granules might be observed below the inner wall. Pores are not evident in the wall complex. Cysts usually contain only one nucleus but occasionally have two nuclei.
A, B: Cysts of B. mandrillaris in brain tissue, stained with H&E. Images courtesy of the University of Kentucky Hospital, Lexington, Kentucky.
Trophozoites of Balamuthia mandrillaris are pleomorphic and measure approximately 12–60 µm (Figure C and D). They often produce long, slender pseudopodia. Trophozoites are usually uninucleate but binucleate forms are sometimes seen. The nucleus contains a large, centrally-located nucleolus but two or three nucleoli have been seen, especially in infected tissues; when present, multiple nucleoli distinguish B. mandrillaris from Acanthamoeba spp. There is no flagellated trophozoite stage as in Naegleria spp. 3,6,7.
C, D: Trophozoites of B. mandrillaris in brain tissue, stained with H&E.
Biopsies of skin lesions demonstrate granulomatous inflammation with infiltrating giant cells, lymphocytes, plasma cells, and eosinophils; Balamuthia cysts or trophozoites can often be seen in tissue sections 8. Although most lesions are found in the skin or the brain, granulomas containing amebas have also been found in other organs including the lungs and kidneys 9.
E: Indirect Immunofluorescence (IIF) assay for Balamuthia mandrillaris.
An increasing number of PCR-based techniques (conventional and real-time PCR) have been described for detection and identification of free-living amebae in clinical samples, but are only available in selected reference laboratories. A real-time PCR was developed at CDC for simultaneous identification of Balamuthia mandrillaris, Naegleria fowleri, and Acanthamoeba species in clinical samples. This assay uses distinct primers and TaqMan probes for the simultaneous identification of these three amebae 10. Culture may be used to amplify the number of organisms for PCR testing, but is not used alone for diagnostic testing. Unlike Acanthamoeba, Balamuthia cannot be grown on agar plates coated with bacteria but requires mammalian cell cultures (such as monkey kidney [E6] or human lung fibroblasts) for laboratory cultivation 7.
Detecting Balamuthia mandrillaris antigen involves immunohistochemical staining techniques, such as indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) staining and immune alkaline phosphatase staining (IHC), which use an antibody specific for Balamuthia mandrillaris followed by microscopic examination to identify Balamuthia mandrillaris in tissue, culture, or CSF.
Immunohistochemical (IHC) techniques employing rabbit anti-ameba sera 3, 11 with subsequent microscopic examination can identify Balamuthia in tissue, culture, or CSF. Three IHC methods are available: indirect immunofluorescence (IIF) staining (Figure E), immune peroxidase staining, or immune alkaline phosphatase staining.
Antibodies have been demonstrated in healthy persons and patients with Balamuthia infection 3,12. Serology using an immunofluorescent antibody test for Balamuthia is available at CDC as a research technique, as it has not been evaluated for use as a routine diagnostic procedure.
Below are instructions for submitting specimens to CDC for free-living ameba testing. Please see the CDC Infectious Diseases Laboratory Test Directory for additional information.
Specimens can be sent to CDC for diagnostic assistance. If possible, please send the following specimens:
Fresh, unfixed CSF or tissue
If the specimen has been previously frozen or is preserved in formalin, CDC will still accept the specimen but the full range of testing methodologies might not be available.
Paraffin-embedded and formalin-fixed tissue
Preferably a few H&E-stained slides and a few [about 6] unstained slides, or
Sera (two samples taken 2 weeks apart)
Fresh, unfixed specimens (i.e., CSF and tissue) should be sent at ambient temperature by overnight priority mail. Please ship these specimens separately from other chilled or frozen samples being shipped.
If the specimen (i.e., CSF or tissue) has been previously frozen or is preserved in formalin, CDC will still accept the specimen but the full range of testing methodologies might not be available. Please send these specimens by overnight priority mail on ice packs (if tissue is frozen) (do NOT ship on dry ice) and ambient temperature if the tissue is fixed in formalin.
Care should be taken to pack glass slides securely, as they can be damaged in shipment if not packed in a crush-proof container.
Serum specimens can be collected from the patient in a red-top tube (plain vacuum tube with no additive) or a serum-separator tube (tiger top) tube (red/gray speckled top with gel in the tube). Please centrifuge the specimen, and if possible, send serum only. If using a plain red-top tube, you must separate the serum before shipping and send the serum only. Serum samples should be shipped refrigerated or frozen and packed with cold packs.
Please use the CDC specimen submission form [PDF – 2 pages] and send to the address below. Be sure to add the pertinent travel history as well as relevant clinical history and any results from previous infectious disease testing. Please arrange Monday–Friday delivery only. Packages cannot be accepted on weekends or federal holidays.
CDC Shipping address:
SMB/STAT
Attn: Unit 53
See Specimen Submission Guidelines for Pathologic Evaluation of CNS Infections for more information.
Telediagnosis can be arranged at CDC by emailing photos through DPDx, CDC's telediagnosis tool. Instructions for submitting photos through DPDx are available at the DPDx Contact Us page.
Visvesvara GS, Roy SL, Maguire JH. Pathogenic and Opportunistic Free-Living Amebae: Acanthamoeba spp., Balamuthia mandrillaris, Naegleria fowleri, and Sappinia pedata. Tropical Infectious Diseases—Principles, Pathogens, & Practice, 3rd ed. Guerrant RL, Walker DH, Weller PF, editors. Philadelphia, PA: Elsevier Churchill Livingstone. 2001;707–13.
Jayasekera S, Sissons J, Tucker J, Rogers C, Nolder D, Warhurst D, Alsam S, White JML, Higgins EM, Khan NA. Post-mortem culture of Balamuthia mandrillaris from the brain and cerebrospinal fluid of a case of granulomatous amoebic meningoencephalitis, using human brain microvascular endothelial cells. J Med Microbiol. 2004;53(10):1007–12.
Council for State and Territorial Epidemiologists (CSTE). Case definitions for non-notifiable infections caused by free-living amebae (Naegleria fowleri, Balamuthia mandrillaris, and Acanthamoeba spp.). [PDF – 10 pages] Infectious Disease Committee. 2012.
Visvesvara GS, Schuster FL, Martinez AJ. Balamuthia mandrillaris, N. G., N. Sp, agent of amebic meningoencephalitis in humans and other animals. J Eukaryot Microbiol. 1993;40:504–14.
Bravo FG, Cabrera J, Gottuzo E, Visvesvara GS. Cutaneous manifestations of infection by free-living amebas. Tropical Dermatology. Tyring SK, Lupi O, Hengge UR, editors. Philadelphia: Elsevier. 2006. pp. 49–55.
Martinez AJ, Visvesvara GS. Free-living, amphizoic and opportunistic amebas. Brain Pathol. 1997;7:583–98.
Jackson BR, Kucerova Z, Roy SL, Aguirre G, Weiss J, Sriram R, Yoder J, Foelber R, Baty S, Derado G, Stramer SL, Winkelman V, Visvesvara G. Serologic survey for exposure following fatal Balamuthia mandrillaris infection. Parasitol Res. 2014;113:1305–11.
