Indexed Infectious Diseases Journals
Journal of Immunological Techniques in Infectious Diseases is an online scientific journal that is indexed by various indexing services. Journal of Immunological Techniques in Infectious Diseases is one of the indexed infectious diseases journals that promote rigorous research in the field of infectious diseases. The journal has an expertise editorial board and reviewer panel. Articles submitted by authors are analyzed by a group of peer review experts in the field and ensures that the published articles are of high quality, reflect solid scholarship in their fields, and that the information they contain is accurate and reliable. Journal of Immunological Techniques in Infectious Diseases accepts research, review papers, case reports, short communication, rapid communication, online letters to the editors etc. Journal of Immunological Techniques in Infectious Diseases strictly follows peer review process and publishes quality articles which would contribute to the scientific community worldwide. Journal of Immunological Techniques in Infectious Diseases promotes ongoing international research through publication of latest scientific trends in the field of infectious diseases. The Journal aspires to provide International scientific/ scholarly communication, platform for dissemination of research through its scholarly publications.
Side Effects of Over-the-Counter Painkillers | Everyday Health
What's in your medicine cabinet? If you're like most Americans, it's likely to contain at least one type of over-the-counter pain drug such as aspirin, acetaminophen, or ibuprofen. In fact, more than 2.5 billion dollars are spent on nonprescription painkillers each year. And while you may not think twice about taking them when you have a headache or back trouble, there are some risks associated with pain relievers you may not be aware of.
Scott E. Glaser, MD, president of Pain Specialists of Greater Chicago, says that the most commonly used types of over-the-counter (OTC) painkillers are non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) — ibuprofen (Advil), and naproxen (Aleve) — and acetaminophen (Tylenol), also sold under other brand names.
One of the most well-known risks of painkillers is liver damage from acetaminophen. "Although [acetaminophen] has been used for years and overall is extremely safe, liver toxicity can occur with use of more than 4,000 milligrams in a day," says Dr. Glaser. "This would be eight 500-milligram pills, which is the dosage of extra-strength Tylenol. Liver damage or failure may also occur at lower doses in those who drink alcohol regularly or who have pre-existing liver disease, such as hepatitis C."
Because acetaminophen is often incorporated into other drugs, you may not be aware of exactly how much you're taking, which further compounds your risk. "It's also included in multiple other remedies for colds or sinus symptoms and is commonly paired with other stronger painkillers in medications such as Vicodin and Percocet," says Glaser. "If an individual is not aware of this fact, he may unintentionally expose himself to amounts of acetaminophen in the danger zone."
"Any of these pain drugs alone can cause ulcers, and using them together only increases the risk," says Glaser. "All three of these medications reduce pain through their effects on the prostaglandin pathways." Unfortunately, those same effects are what lead to an increased risk of gastritis and ulcer formation.
Though it's rare, some people could risk kidney problems from using ibuprofen or naproxen. "A less common but severe complication related to these medications is kidney failure, which occurs more commonly in patients who have co-existing risk factors, such as diabetes or high blood pressure," Glaser says.
A study published in the Canadian Medical Association Journal found that women taking NSAIDs during the first 20 weeks of pregnancy are more than twice as likely to have a miscarriage. The researchers theorized that these drugs may interfere with levels of prostaglandins, hormones that are important in inducing labor. If you are pregnant or planning a pregnancy and want to take any medication, including painkillers, be sure to discuss it with your doctor first.
A recent study also showed that taking NSAIDs may reduce the effectiveness of the antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or SSRIs. "More research will need to be done to further confirm these findings before a blanket recommendation can be made," Glaser says. "Frequently in these situations, a conclusion is jumped to, and unintended consequences may occur. For example, follow-up studies may reveal that the extra pain endured secondary to stopping the use of NSAIDs may also lead to a lower success rate of depression treatment."
Ibuprofen, naproxen, and aspirin have a mild blood-thinning effect. This isn't a problem for most people, but for those already on blood-thinning medications, it can be an issue. "In patients on blood thinners such as Coumadin or Plavix to prevent clots, these medications [NSAIDS and aspirin] can lead to the unintentional over-thinning of the blood and excessive risks of bleeding," Glaser says. "Additionally, these NSAIDs have been shown to raise blood pressure. In most cases the increase is small, but it can be variable."
One thing that is clear when it comes to chronic pain and the pain drugs you take for it: It's important to talk to your doctor about the risks involved if you are using them frequently. "Obviously, OTC medications are safe enough that it has been deemed that a doctor's prescription is no longer necessary for their use," Glaser says. "However, that does not mean they are risk-free."
You are taking these drugs daily and for an extended period of time
You are taking prescription medications, especially painkillers
You have another chronic condition such as high blood pressure, kidney disease, diabetes, or coronary artery disease.
Accreditation | Gateway Community Health Centre
Gateway Community Health Centre Receives Accreditation Canada's Highest Standing for Excellence
Gateway Community Health Centre has successfully achieved its second consecutive certification from Accreditation Canada, with Exemplary Standing. Gateway CHC was evaluated against 478 standards and achieved a total score of 99.8%.
"This accomplishment speaks to the total commitment of our board of directors, leadership team, clinicians, staff, and volunteers, and demonstrates their commitment to excellence, quality and safety", said Lyn Linton, Executive Director.
Accreditation Canada Surveyors conducted an on-site evaluation of Gateway Community Health Centre from October 24 to 26, 2016. They met with various community stakeholders, including board members, staff, clients, and community partners during their visit, and praised Gateway's governance, leadership, medication management, and patient safety initiatives."The organization should be commended for its leadership in the comprehensive risk assessments of complex patients and its participation in the local health care system integration of these patients in the care plan".
Linton added, "Gateway's staff devotes time and resources to learn how to improve what we do so that we are confident we are providing the best possible care and service to our clients and their families. It's a privilege to work with our team, and our community partners, where this commitment is evident in all of our interactions with clients and families."
Applicants are expected to be highly motivated, reliable and interested in working in an interdisciplinary and international environment. Finally, a good command of English is a requirement.
The Kjeldsen research group is part of the Protein Research Group (PRG) at the University of Southern Denmark (SDU) in Odense, Denmark. Odense is located about one hour from the main capital of Denmark, Copenhagen. PRG is internationally recognized for its contributions to biological mass spectrometry, proteomics, biomedical research and clinical proteomics. Today the PRG consists of eight individual research groups encompassing more than 50 scientists, postdocs and students who share facilities and research environment. The PRG has a fantastic student environment with many multicultural inputs. The PRG has the newest mass spectrometers for biological mass spectrometry applications including Orbitrap Eclipse, Orbitrap Exploris, and TIMS-TOF-PRO. In addition, the PRG has a fully equipped protein chemistry/proteomics laboratory, cell laboratory facilities and bioinformatics that will be available for the project
The successful applicant will be employed in accordance with the agreement between the Ministry of Finance and AC (the Danish Confederation of Professional Associations). Please check links for more information on salary and taxation.
Triage Cancer-Finances-Work-Insurance | Triage Cancer | Clinical Trials and The Cost
04 Oct Clinical Trials and The Cost
Posted at 11:17h in Clinical Trials, Health Insurance by Triage Cancer
One of the first questions you or your loved one should consider when thinking about participating in a clinical trial is the cost and whether your medical insurance will cover it. There is not one answer to this question, but let's look at a big picture.
In most cases, when a patient enrolls in a clinical trial, the study sponsor provides the new treatment at no cost and pays for any tests, procedures, or doctor visits. Some sponsors go even further and pay for things like travel time and mileage. It is important to find out what cost are covered by the study and if you will be stuck with any of the expense. At this point, you also should look at your insurance coverage.
As of January 1, 2014, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act required that non-grandfathered health plans (i.e. those that were not in place before March 23, 2010) cannot deny a qualified individual participation in an approved clinical trial, or deny or limit the coverage of "routine costs" in connection with participation in the trial. An "approved clinical trial" is deemed as one that test ways to prevent, detect, or treat cancer and are funded or approved by the federal government and have submitted an FDA Investigational New Drug application (IND) or are exempt from IND requirements. Routine costs" are those that would normally be involved in standard of care, such as doctor visits, blood tests, imaging scans, etc.
State laws may go even further in protecting consumers' rights to participate in clinical trials. Thirty-seven states and the District of Columbia all have laws on the books regarding clinical trial coverage. For specific information about your state, go to http://TriageCancer.org/statelaws.
Unfortunately, the federal government does not require states to cover clinical trials through state Medicaid plans, so coverage depends on the state in which you live. For specific information about your state, go to http://TriageCancer.org/statelaws.
Like private insurance, Medicare covers routine costs of items and services in covered research studies. Examples of these items and services include room and board at a hospital, the treatment of side effects and complications that may occur as a result of the study, and operations to implant an item that is being tested. For a full understanding of Medicare coverage for clinical trials, go to https://www.medicare.gov/Pubs/pdf/02226.pdf.
TRICARE and Veterans Affairs
Our military members and families also have some coverage for clinical trials. TRICARE will reimburse the medical costs related to taking part in National Cancer Institute (NCI) sponsored trials for cancer prevention and treatment. Veterans Affairs allows eligible veterans to participate in NCI-sponsored clinical trials at VA Medical Centers.
There is good news out there about clinical trial coverage, but you have to your due diligence. Make sure you ask what the study covers and then get a full understanding of what your insurance covers.
For more information about participating in a clinical trial, visit http://triagecancer.org/clinical-trials or read other blogs in this series at http://triagecancer.org/blog.
Welcome to Digitally Empowered™!
Thoughtful Gifts for Individuals with Cancer
Tips on Researching a New Doctor
WTF (What the Finance) is a State Mandated Retirement Plan?
Understanding the Financial Planning Process
Archives Select Month January 2021 December 2020 November 2020 October 2020 September 2020 August 2020 July 2020 June 2020 May 2020 April 2020 March 2020 February 2020 January 2020 December 2019 November 2019 October 2019 September 2019 August 2019 July 2019 June 2019 May 2019 April 2019 March 2019 February 2019 January 2019 December 2018 November 2018 October 2018 September 2018 August 2018 July 2018 June 2018 May 2018 April 2018 March 2018 February 2018 January 2018 December 2017 November 2017 October 2017 September 2017 August 2017 July 2017 June 2017 May 2017 April 2017 March 2017 February 2017 January 2017 December 2016 November 2016 October 2016 September 2016 August 2016 July 2016 June 2016 May 2016 April 2016 March 2016 February 2016 January 2016 December 2015 November 2015 October 2015 September 2015 August 2015 July 2015 June 2015 May 2015 April 2015 March 2015 January 2015 December 2014 November 2014 October 2014 September 2014 August 2014 July 2014 June 2014 May 2014 March 2014 February 2014 January 2014 December 2013 November 2013 October 2013 September 2013 August 2013 July 2013 June 2013 May 2013
Iverfast 12Mg Tablet - Uses, Side Effects, Substitutes, Composition And More | Lybrate
Manufacturer: Heramb Healthcare
Medicine composition: Ivermectin
About Iverfast 12Mg Tablet
Before taking Iverfast 12Mg Tablet discuss with your doctor these pre-existing conditions if any as a precautionary measure. These are:
If you are allergic to any ingredient contained within Iverfast 12Mg Tablet.
The dosage of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet will be according to your doctor's prescription. It will be determined by your age, the severity of your condition, your medical history. The adult dose for curing onchocerciasis is 0.15 orally once in every 12 months and for treating strongyloidiasis 0.2 mg orally once. Those with very severe fungal eye infection may need treatment every 3-6 months. In case of suspected drug overdose seek medical supervision immediately.
What are the uses of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet
Iverfast 12Mg Tablet is used in the treatment of onchocerciasis which is a parasitic worm infection caused by Onchocerca volvulus transmitted through the bite of black flies characterized by skin itching and vision impairment.
Iverfast 12Mg Tablet is used in the treatment of strongyloidiasis which is an intestinal infection caused by a roundworm called Strongyloides stercoralis characterized by abdominal pain and diarrhea.
Iverfast 12Mg Tablet is used in the treatment of scabies which is a skin infection caused by the mite called Sarcoptes scabiei characterized by itching and red rashes on the skin.
What are the contraindications of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet ?
Not recommended in patients with known allergy to Iverfast 12Mg Tablet.
What are the side effects of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet ?
Key highlights of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet
It is found to be unsafe if consume alcohol with Iverfast 12Mg Tablet.
Limited information available. Kindly consult your doctor before taking Iverfast 12Mg Tablet.
What are the substitutes for Iverfast 12Mg Tablet ?
Below is the list of medicines, which have the same composition, strength and form as Iverfast 12Mg Tablet , and hence can be used as its substitute.
Where is the Iverfast 12Mg Tablet approved?
What are the interactions of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet ?
Consumption of alcohol is not recommended in patients receiving Iverfast 12Mg Tablet. It may increase the concentration of this medicine and can cause skin rash, headache, dizziness, vomiting, diarrhea, and abdominal pain.
Inform the doctor if you are receiving oxcarbazepine, carbamazepine as these medicines decrease the effect of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet. Any symptoms of the increase in the severity of infection should be reported to the doctor. The dose adjustments or an alternate medicine should be considered based on the clinical condition.
FAQs about Iverfast 12Mg Tablet
Ques: What is Iverfast 12Mg Tablet?
Ans: Iverfast 12Mg Tablet is a salt which performs its action by binding to the muscle and nerve cells of worms, causing their paralysis and death. This treats your infection. Iverfast 12Mg Tablet is used to treat conditions such as Onchocerciasis, Strongyloidiasis, and Scabies.
Ques: What are the uses of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet?
Ans: Iverfast 12Mg Tablet is a salt, which is used for the treatment and prevention of conditions such as Onchocerciasis and Strongyloidiasis. Apart from these, it can also be used to treat conditions like Scabies. The patient should inform the doctor about any ongoing medications and treatment before using Iverfast 12Mg Tablet to avoid undesirable effects.
Ques: What are the Side Effects of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet?
Ques: What are the instructions for storage and disposal Iverfast 12Mg Tablet?
Ans: Iverfast 12Mg Tablet should be kept in a cool dry place and in its original packaging. Make sure this medication remains unreachable to children and pets.
Ques: Is Iverfast 12Mg Tablet effective?
Ques: Is Iverfast 12Mg Tablet available over the counter?
Ques: How does Iverfast 12Mg Tablet work?
Ques: What if I forget to take a dose of Iverfast 12Mg Tablet?
Ques: Is Iverfast 12Mg Tablet safe?
Hi, At which month of pregnancy ivermectin 12 mg tab is going to create problem to the fetus.
Ivermectin has been assigned to pregnancy category c by the fda. Animal studies have revealed evidence of teratogenicity, but at doses that were also maternotoxic to the pregnant female. The manufacturer considers ivermectin contraindicated during...
Ayurvedic Treatments For White Patches (Vitiligo)!
Vitiligo is one of the skin diseases causing the cosmetic problem. It is a common puzzling disorder of great socio-medical importance characterized by hypopigmented and/or depigmented milky white or ivory white maculae on the skin, resulting from ...
Homeopathy is a sub arrangement of common cures in which extraordinary elements of substances from nature are utilised to form a mending and healing solution. The various homoeopathic treatments for cancer are: Calcarea fluorica [Calc-f]: This hom...
Homeopathy Doctor, Thrissur
Cancer is a disease that is caused due to the multiplication and growth of abnormal cells in any part of the body. It is usually classified in terms of the type of tissue or the organs affected. While there are many types of treatment available fo...
NATC Conference 2013
NATC Conference 2013 - Language
HomeStart here	About NATCC	Announcements	Mission Statement	Current Board	Past Board	FAQ	Awards and Grants	Announcements	Grants	Donations	Upcoming Conference	Highlights	Events Calendar	Registration	Local Committee	Conference Sponsors	Call For Papers	Program	Keynote Speech	Papers	Posters	Panel Discussion	Workshops	Accommodations	Transportation	Visitor's guide	Map - City of San Francisco	Other Textile Events	Tours	Conference Archives	Oaxaca 2011	Highlights	Local Committee	Conference Sponsors	Program	Keynote Speech	Papers	Posters	Workshops	Quebec 2009	Highlights	Local Committee	Conference Sponsors	Program	Papers	Posters	Workshops	Washington 2007	Highlights	Local Committee	Conference Sponsors	Program	Papers	Posters	Workshops	Mexico City 2005	Highlights	Local Committee	Conference Sponsors	Program	Papers	Posters	Workshops	Albany 2003	Highlights	Local Committee	Conference Sponsors	Program	Papers	Posters	Workshops	Philadelphia 2002	Highlights	Local Committee	Conference Sponsors	Program	Papers	Posters	Workshops	Asheville 2000	Highlights	Local Committee	Conference Sponsors	Program	Papers	Posters	Workshops	Ottawa 1997	Highlights	Local Committee	Conference Sponsors	Program	Papers	Posters	Workshops	Publications	Pre-Prints	Abstracts	Papers	Posters	Links Organizations	National Groups	Regional Groups	Local Groups	Resources	Articles	Transportation	Transportation from the airport
The cost is approximately $17.00 one way from the San Francisco airport (SFO) to downtown San Francisco. It is recommended to make a reservation ahead of your departure.
The cost is about $37.00 one way from airport to downtown San Francisco. Taxis depart from the designated taxi zones located at the roadway center islands, on the Arrivals/Baggage Claim Level of all terminals.
http://www.flysfo.com/web/page/tofrom/transp-serv/to-sf/
Muni (public transportation)
Fares are $2/ride with a 90 minute receipt/transfer ticket.
Public Transportation to Koret Auditorium of the deYoung Museum
Muni's 44-O'Shaughnessy bus stops near the front of the museum on Tea Garden Drive (southbound) and on Concourse Drive near the Academy of Sciences (northbound).
The 5-Fulton stops at 8th Avenue and Fulton Street, just outside of the park. From 8th, walk into the park and turn right on John F. Kennedy Drive to reach the museum's tower entrance.
The 28-19th Avenue bus stops at Park Presidio Boulevard and Fulton Street. From Park Presidio and Fulton, walk into the park via the Rose Garden and turn left on John F. Kennedy Drive to reach the museum.
The N-Judah Muni Metro streetcar, stops at 9th Avenue and Irving Street. To reach the de Young, walk north on 9th Avenue to Golden Gate Park. 9th Avenue turns into Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard. Keep walking on Martin Luther King, Jr. Boulevard until you reach Hagiwara Tea Garden Drive, then turn right and continue to the museum entrance.
In addition, the Musuem's website offers driving and parking options:
http://deyoung.famsf.org/deyoung/visiting/getting-de-young Upcoming Conference: San Francisco 2013!Menu
Events Calendar	Registration	East Bay Innovation - Full day cultural tour!	Paper Presentations	Poster Presentations	Workshops	Accommodations	Transportation	The Koret Auditorium of the de Young Museum in Golden Gate Park will be the venue for the two days of lectures and poster presentations of the 2013 NATCC!
The closing reception of the NATCC 2013 will be held at the Asian Art Museum in San Francisco's Civic Center.
Textile Museum of Oaxaca, photo by Eric Chávez, Courtesy of Museo Textil de Oaxaca.
Our previous conference was held in the city of Oaxaca, Mexico, in November 2011. Read more...Publications
SAGE to publish The Economic and Labour Relations Review from March 2013 | EurekAlert! Science News
Los Angeles, CA (February 08, 2013) - SAGE and the University of New South Wales today announced an agreement to publish its journal The Economic and Labour Relations Review (ELRR) from March 2013.
"SAGE has a strong portfolio of journals within the economics, industrial and labour relations sectors and we are delighted to be able to welcome The Economic and Labour Relations Review to this group", remarked Karen Phillips, Editorial Director, SAGE. "We are committed to providing our publishing partners with a long-term, first class publishing service, and we are really delighted to add a second UNSW journal to our portfolio."
"The Economic and Labour Relations Review provides a critical forum for the review of economic policies and labour relations, and at our heart is the commitment to making this academic research accessible to all working in this broad field," said Anne Junor, Executive Editor. "SAGE is committed to ensuring high quality research reaches an international audience, a commitment that is closely aligned with our own goals for the journal. We look forward to benefiting from this and to developing a long-standing partnership with SAGE."
SAGE is a leading international publisher of journals, books, and electronic media for academic, educational and professional markets. Since 1965, SAGE has helped inform and educate a global community of scholars, practitioners, researchers and students spanning a wide range of subject areas including business, humanities, social sciences, and science, technology, and medicine. An independent company, SAGE has principal offices in Los Angeles, London, New Delhi, Singapore and Washington DC. www.sagepublications.com
The Economic and Labour Relations Review is a double-blind, refereed journal. Original articles which are concerned with contemporary issues, developments and policy making. The journal is produced jointly by the Centre for Applied Economic Research (CAER) and the Industrial Relations Research Centre (IRRC) at the University of New South Wales (UNSW).
Our most-read features of 2019: Brexit, consolidation and mental health | Feature | Research Live
Our most-read features of 2019: Brexit, consolidation and mental health 18 December 2019
FEATURE18 December 2019
Our most-read features of 2019: Brexit, consolidation and mental health
Brexit Data analytics Features Healthcare M&A Trends UK
From interviews with company leadership to reports on mental wellbeing and hard-to-reach research audiences, we reflect on our most-read feature articles of 2019.
1. "Understanding consumers is no longer controlled entirely by market research"
Our most-read feature article of the year is an interview with Pierre Le Manh, chief executive of Ipsos North America and global deputy CEO, who discussed the company's reorganisation and how it is increasingly working with clients outside the research department, such as engineering or design teams.
2. Q&A with Roger Perowne, chief executive, Savanta
Following the merger of MIG Global's data businesses into a new company, Savanta, we spoke to chief executive Roger Perowne about what it meant, including the company's shift away from a set team structure to having practices, inspired by management consultancies.
3. 'No-one left behind': how are research agencies preparing for Brexit?
With little clarity over what the UK's relationship with the EU will entail post-Brexit, market research agencies expressed concern over the economic ramifications and the impact to the industry's talent pool.
4. Health alert: Five steps towards wellbeing at work
After a mental health audit of the industry conducted by Opinium, we explored the top things employers can do to help with staff mental health, including cultivating an open, transparent culture.
5. Q&A with Mandy Pooler, CMO, Kantar
After Kantar brought its multiple businesses under one single brand name, Research Live caught up with chief marketing officer Mandy Pooler to find out more about the move.
6. Five thoughts on data analytics
We reviewed some of the top takeaways from the MRS data and analytics conference, including why internal politics is often the biggest obstacle to obtaining insights from data.
7. Q&A with Barrie Brien, chief executive, Strat7
When Research Bods and Bonamy Finch were acquired by private equity and merged to form Strat7, we caught up with chief executive Barrie Brien to find out more.
8. Q&A with Quentin Ashby, chief executive, Join the Dots
After another acquisition in what has been a year of consolidation for the research industry, Quentin Ashby shed some light on his agency being acquired by InSites Consulting.
9. The unusual suspects
Researching the hard-to-reach is as challenging as it is important for charities, governments and brands. Jane Bainbridge explored how researchers ensure they hear the opinions of people from all sections of society.
10. Shattering stereotypes
While inclusion and diversity have risen up the agenda for businesses, this Impact Report shows that tackling stereotyped thinking about customers isn't only ethical – it leads to better business and is a creative force in product and service design.
Yesterday ( 17th December) we published our top 10 news stories of the year, and later this week we'll take a look at the most-read opinion articles.
Katie McQuater announced as new editor of Impact and Research LIve https://t.co/hT2THea9Ys #mrx #marketresearch
"This enforced stop 'n' think moment is an opportunity for us all to have a retrospective view of our activities,"… https://t.co/BD2GpY3eWm
Mark Ritson on Covid-19: "A tactical challenge but a strategic opportunity" https://t.co/67reksjlBc #mrx #marketresearch
Most-read opinion of 2019: Behavioural science, significance testing and private equity
RT @UN_Women: Maya Angelou, born #OnThisDay, did not shy away from speaking up for what she believed in. Her words will always inspire us…
QUALITY ASSURANCE - Xi'an Healthful Biotechnology Co.,Ltd
Home > Why HSF > Quality Assurance
HSF Biotech has 22 invention patents, involving natural vitamin E, phytosterol, phytosterol ester, stigmasterol, ferulic acid, functional oil and micro-encapsulation fat powders, and etc.
HSF Biotech participated in the drafting and formulation of three national industry standards for plant sterols, plant sterol esters, and natural vitamin E raw material DD oil. In addition, it is participating in two national industry standards for declaration.
2016-01: Awarded as 2015 Star Venture Enterprise in Yangling Demons tration Zone
2017-02: Awarded as the advanced unit of 2016 industrialization project construction in Yangling Demonstration Zone
2017-10: Awarded Yangling Demonstration Zone Engineering Technology Research Center
2017-10: Xi'an Healthful Biotechnology Co., Ltd. was recognized as a high-tech enterprise
2018-01: Awarded the title of Gazelle Enterprise in Yangling Demonstration Zone
2018-09: Awarded as Shaanxi Province SME Innovation R&D Center
2018-11: Shaanxi Healthful Biological Engineering Co., Ltd. was recognized as a high-tech enterprise
2018-11: Identified as a technological innovation demonstration enterprise in Shaanxi Province
2019-10: HSF Biotech won the first place in Xi'an Future Star TOP 100 biomedical sector Healthful National Key Engineering Research Center project approved
HSF Biotech is committed to develop nutrition supplements and functional products, maximize use of food nutrition resources, improve food quality and safety, and promote the sustainable development of food and health industry.
Esterification Technology
Apply proprietary technology: Membrane reaction and separation coupling technology. When reactants flow in the form of membrane on the inner wall of the reactor, by-products are removed without any catalyst and the esterification process is completed.
▪ Simple production process
▪ High product yield
▪ Continuous esterification and purification
▪ Energy saving
Micro-encapsulation Technology
Apply bipolar emulgator, achieve lipid soluble functional ingredients nano-emulsification by means of ultra-high speed shearing and ultra-high pressure homogenization . Then embedded in food grade materials, after spray drying, finally form micro-capsulated granule.
▪ Retain the activity of nutrients
▪ Improve water solubility
▪ Convenient for transportation and application
▪ Mask odour and bitter taste, sustained release.
Sustained release, pelleting
and coating technology
Apply pelleting technology in raw powder functional materials to form raw granular functional materials(core materials), then coat the granules through spraying and finally form micro-capsulated granules.
▪ Excellent particle size distribution and fluidity
▪ Sustained release of functional ingredients
▪ Mask the odour and bitter taste of core materials
Apply molecular biology and genetic engineering technology in genomic analysis, change the metabolic pathways of industrial microorganisms, obtain high catalytic enzymes, use efficient cell factories, realize industrialized production of high value-added products.
