XYDEN Syrup 60 ml Price in Pakistan- MedicalStore.com.pk
Home » Shop » XYDEN Syrup 60 ml
XYDEN Syrup 60 ml
XYDEN Syrup 60 ml quantity
Cetirizine:0 | Anti-allergics (Antihistamines) and drugs used in anaphylaxis
SKU: dis_5784 Categories: Anti-allergics (Antihistamines) and drugs used in anaphylaxis, Medicine & Health
Manufactured / Marketed By : Dyson R L Product Form : SyrupPack Size : 60 ml Ingredients : Cetirizine:0Generic Category : Anti-allergics (Antihistamines) and drugs used in anaphylaxis
Be the first to review "XYDEN Syrup 60 ml" Cancel reply
XYDEN Syrup 60 ml works by reducing a chemical substance called histamine from the body.
Major & minor side effects for XYDEN Syrup 60 ml
Uses of XYDEN Syrup 60 ml
This medicine is not recommended for use in patients with a known allergy to XYDEN Syrup 60 ml.
One of the following licensed pharmacy from the nearest location will deliver XYDEN Syrup 60 ml. The details of the licensed pharmacy shall be shared once you request the drugs and the respective pharmacy accepts your request based on valid prescription and availability.
HIV & AIDS Information :: HIV update - 24th October 2018
NAFLD a rising cause of liver disease in people with HIV 23 hours ago
HIV update - 24th October 2018
Long-term effectiveness of single-tablet regimens
The newest once-daily, all-in-one HIV combination pills can maintain undetectable viral load for two years and counting, according to a set of recent studies.
Biktarvy is a pill that contains the new integrase inhibitor bictegravir, emtricitabine and tenofovir alafenamide (TAF). A study randomised people starting treatment for the first time to take Biktarvy or Triumeq, which consists of the integrase inhibitor dolutegravir plus abacavir and lamivudine.
After two years, 88% of Biktarvy recipients and 90% of Triumeq recipients had an undetectable viral load, showing that the two pills gave very similar results. Virological failure and drug resistance were rare in both groups of people. Fewer people receiving Biktarvy had side-effects from their treatment.
Delstrigo is a pill that containes the new non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) doravirine plus tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF) and lamivudine. A study randomised people starting treatment for the first time to take Delstrigo or Atripla, which contains the NNRTI efavirenz, TDF and emtricitabine.
After two years, 78% of people given Delstrigo and 74% given Atripla had an undetectable viral load, again showing that the two pills gave very similar results. Virological failure was uncommon and drug resistance was rare in both groups of people. Fewer people receiving Delstrigo had side-effects from their treatment.
Whereas the last two studies were of people taking HIV treatment for the first time, the third one was of people switching from a protease inhibitor-based treatment (with several pills) to Symtuza, a single tablet that contains the protease inhibitor darunavir, cobicistat as a booster, TAF and emtricitabine.
After two years, 91% of those given Symtuza had an undetectable viral load. Virological failure, drug resistance and serious side-effects were rare.
Taken together, the results of these studies provide reassurance that people taking the most recently approved all-in-one antiretroviral regimens can expect ongoing viral suppression, with few side-effects.
First HIV-positive to HIV-negative liver transplant
An HIV-negative child has received a liver transplant from their HIV-positive mother and now appears to have no evidence of HIV infection apart from a very weak antibody response, despite extensive testing for the virus, South African scientists report.
The baby needed the transplant because of end-stage liver disease. When a donor could not be found, the mother asked to donate a portion of her own liver. The procedure had never been attempted from a living HIV-positive donor before, both because of the risk of HIV transmission and because of concerns for the donor's own health, in the case of complications.
The transplant happened when the baby was 13 months old. The mother had an undetectable viral load and the infant took a large number of drugs, including steroids to prevent organ rejection and antiretrovirals to prevent HIV acquisition.
Several weeks after the transplant, the baby tested positive for HIV antibodies, but levels of these rapidly declined to almost undetectable levels, indicating a lack of HIV replication to stimulate antibody responses. No HIV DNA or RNA has ever been detected.
The researchers cannot decide whether the child has cleared HIV or if the virus is deeply hidden, perhaps only in the liver. The only way to find out would be to stop the anti-HIV drugs the child is taking and monitor for a rebound in viral load.
The ethical implications of doing so need to be fully thought through. And experts say that this one case does not yet demonstrate that organ transplants can be safely given from HIV-positive donors, without HIV infection taking hold. But the case has generated interesting new data for cure researchers to analyse.
Pain is very common among people living with HIV and has a major impact on quality of life, British researchers report. They compared pain in three groups:
Older people living with HIV, over the age of 50
Younger people living with HIV, under the age of 50
Older people who don't have HIV but are otherwise very similar to the older people living with HIV.
Participants were asked if they currently had aches or pains that had lasted a day or more. Current pain was common in all participants, but was more frequently reported by older people living with HIV (49%) than younger people living with HIV (38%) or older HIV-negative people (40%). People experiencing pain were more likely to be female, heterosexual and of Black African ethnicity.
People with current pain reported poorer quality of life than other people. Of those in pain, 14% had taken days off work, 30% were unemployed or on sick leave (twice the rate seen in people who were not currently in pain) and, in the older age group, 60% reported depression.
The researchers say that doctors need to do more to encourage their patients to talk about pain. Doctors should provide more help to ease pain and to help people deal with it.
An intervention that helped smokers give up cigarettes at the same time as helping with anxiety and depression proved to be more effective than an intervention that only helped with smoking, American researchers have found.
Anxiety and depression are more common among smokers than non-smokers. Anxiety and depression often contribute to failed attempts at giving up smoking, so researchers tried an integrated approach using a cognitive behavioural therapy approach.
Six months after the end of the programme, 46% of people who received the integrated intervention were not smoking, compared to 5% of people getting a standard smoking cessation intervention.
Why would anybody want to get infected with HIV? That is what most people ask when they first hear about "bug chasing". However, fantasising about something is very different to pursuing it offline, in the "real world".
In the MSM community, a rapidly expanding STI epidemic is fuelling questions about whether the steadily rising number of people who start Truvada for HIV prevention subsequently change their sexual behavior in ways that increase their risk of contracting chlamydia, gonorrhea, syphilis and, in rarer cases, hepatitis C.
Becoming a parent should not be denied to HIV-positive gay and bisexual men
Cervical cancer is preventable, but it remains the second most common cause of cancer among women and the leading cause of female cancer deaths in sub-Saharan Africa. It is also one of the most common cancers in women living with HIV.
from EATG
The Global Database on HIV-specific Travel & Residence Restrictions, a useful online tool regarding the cross-border mobility of people living with HIV/AIDS, was recently updated. Thirteen countries have punitive laws affecting stays below 90 days; 49 countries restrict long-term stays of more than 90 days; laws and practices are unclear in 24 countries; and 143 countries have no restrictions.
Online Therapy | San Francisco lifestyle | Sylvie in the Sky
One of the hardest struggles for many during quarantine, was that it made going to therapy sessions more difficult. And for those of us who did not see a therapist, the isolation, unexpected tragedies, unemployment, fear, and anxiety have surfaced new or existing traumas that impact how we feel and think every day. Therapy is so important for our emotional and mental health and helps everyone in different ways. Finding a therapist shouldn't make you more stressed or overwhelmed, so I've gathered a list of the best online therapy apps to help make this search a little easier. Teletherapy is any form of remote therapy that requires technology for communication between patient and therapist. These mental health and therapy apps are helping to make therapy sessions more convenient, affordable, and accessible. Here's to putting our mental and emotional health first with these 19 best virtual therapy apps available now on your smartphone.
Best Online Therapy Apps for Anxiety & Depression
Allowing you to connect with a licensed therapist anywhere and anytime, Talkspace is a fantastic option for those looking for flexible therapy sessions. All you have to do is fill out the online assessment, choose your therapist from a list of recommendations, and then you're ready to start your virtual therapy journey!
BetterHelp is the largest e-counseling platform in the world that matches you with a counselor to help with self-esteem, relationships, grief, anxiety, and more. This virtual therapy platform consists of licensed, trained, and experienced psychologists, marriage and family therapists, clinical social workers, and board licensed professional counselors.
This online anxiety and stress chat app connects users with caring listeners for emotional support to help with people lead their best life. 7 Cups is the world's largest emotional support system with growth at your own pace, 24/7 chat options, and affordable online therapy.
If you're serious about saving or improving your relationships, ReGain is a great option! This app offers individual and couples counseling anytime, anywhere for those seeking counseling for relationship and marital problems.
With text, phone, and video counseling, Teen Counseling has over 5,000 licensed therapists who are available to help teens during times of need. This virtual platform is specifically for those ages 13-19 who are looking to discuss issues of bullying, eating disorders, depression, and any other mental challenges they may be facing.
This is an amazing platform offering guidance and support for the LGBTQ community. If you're struggling with your identity, mental health issues, or just want someone to talk to, Pride Counseling is accessible and accepting of everyone.
Doctor on Demand is an online community of board-certified physicians, and licensed psychiatrists, psychologists, and therapists that are available to you on your schedule. These professionals help with urgent care, behavioral health, preventative health, and chronic care.
This app offers live and on-demand video appointments with a physician of your choice! You can visit with these doctors 24/7 with no appointment necessary. They also send prescriptions electronically to the pharmacy of your choice!
If you've ever heard of Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT) and have wanted to give it a try, MoodKit is a great option! MoodKit uses CBT with exercises and lessons to help work you through your emotions and feelings. This app has over 200 activities to choose from and is fully based on theories from professionals.
This app also uses CBT along with Acceptance and Commitment Therapy (ACT) to help with habit tracking and sub-clinical mental health concerns. They work with habit tracking to help you set goals and break habits to help manage your stress and anxiety.
Bloom offers daily mental health coaching sessions to help with stress, anxiety, sleep, and self healing. They provide guided imagery programs and CBT that work together to help improve your mood and bring more happiness into your life.
If you're interested in learning more about meditation, 10% Happier provides guided meditations, videos, talks, and sleep content to help with meditation practice. They teach you how to meditate and show you best practices. If you enjoy this app, check out their podcast too!
I find that keeping track of my mood and how I'm feeling throughout the day is such a big help in becoming more aware and mindful. Reflectly is a mood tracker and daily motivation app that helps you reflect on your mood, thoughts, and feelings.
Youper is a different kind of therapy app because they offer therapy through Artificial Intelligence. Through this platform, you are able to take control of your emotions by having conversations guided to improve your overall wellbeing by Artificial Intelligence.
This app is another great mood tracker to help with understanding and becoming more aware of your thoughts and feelings. Sayana wants to help you begin your self-discovery journey through personal insights, mindfulness tips and best practices.
With therapy, coaching, self-care tips, and a community to back you up, Sanvello helps you manage your mental health. This app is free to download, but there are in-app purchases for unlimited use of their tools and health plans.
This app is really interesting in that you get to basically create your own personal Artificial Intelligence "friend" to help with anything that's on your mind. The idea of Replika is to make users feel heard by giving them a platform to chat with a personal chatbot 24/7.
MindDoc is a great space for monitoring, self-managing, and recognizing mental health disorders. The app was developed by psychotherapists and scientists to work with patients struggling with anxiety, depression, eating disorders, and other mental health disorders.
This is a personalized therapy app that you can use to help calm down by sorting colors. Sorting Therapy is a color sorting app to encourage relaxation with no timers, levels, sound effects, score, achievement, or distractions. It's as simple as it gets, but it's very effective!
I want to take a moment to recognize this important step of making therapy a part of your emotional and mental health support. Therapy is not something to be ashamed of or worried about, it's a right for all humans and something to be so proud of. Be proud of yourself for making the efforts to strengthen your life and yourself for the better. If you need a safe space to collect your thoughts and be more aware of your mental wellbeing, these virtual therapy apps are supportive resources for all mental health needs.
The Top 6 Triathlon Nutrition Supplement Mistakes - health
Home/Nutrition/The Top 6 Triathlon Nutrition Supplement Mistakes
In reality, most triathletes take supplements. With the advantage increased energy and nutrient requirements, a desire to enhance performance, and a greater degree of food and exercise based inflammation, we really can get a bit of a benefit by popping pills (legally, of course).
However, many athletes indiscriminately grab their "morning handful" of capsules, swallow them, and "check off" their nutrition supplements for the day. The fact is, this supplement shot-gunning approach can result in sub-par absorption and utilization of the nutrients, vitamins, minerals or other desirable compound in the nutrition supplement.
So here are the top 6 nutrition supplement mistakes, and how you can avoid them:
Nutrition Supplement Mistake #1: Eating Fiber With Your Fish Oil
Most people take their fish oil supplement in the morning, along with breakfast. The problem is that most breakfast foods are high fiber. And soluble fibers such as pectin, guar gum, and oat bran, and also the insoluble fiber lignin (found in plant cell walls) can affect fat absorption by "wrapping" fatty acids within the digestive tract and decreasing their absorption. Fatty acids and cholesterol that are bound to fiber are less absorbed – and only free fatty acids allow for fat to be transported through the walls of the small intestine. Fiber-bound fatty acids will mostly pass into the large intestine.
In other words, by popping your fish oil capsules with a high-fiber morning cereal, you're basically making expensive fish oil poop. So what should you do? Try taking your fish oil with an afternoon, fat-based snack, such as a handful of olives, almond butter on pita, or avocado with crackers.
Nutrition Supplement Mistake #2: Taking High Dose Antioxidants Regularly
This can be confusing, especially if you've been indoctrinated with the idea that all antioxidants are good, but recent research suggests that antioxidant nutrition supplements, such as high dose Vitamin C, may actually impair recovery, increase inflammation, decrease insulin sensitivity, and lead to a lower fitness response to exercise. The basic idea is behind this is that antioxidants protect the body from the damage produced by free radicals, but if you're always taking high dose antioxidants, your body never learns to generate it's own antioxidant activity, and thus does not not grow strong free radical buffering capacity on it's own.
While this is a fairly new topic in sports nutrition, and research is scant, my recommendation is to save any high dose antioxidant supplements for your harder training days (such as long training weekends) when your body probably needs a little extra help. But on recovery days and easy or short training days, hold back on the antioxidants. You probably don't need them and they may be doing you more harm than good.
Nutrition Supplement Mistake #3: Eating Amino Acids When You're Trying To Control Appetite
Branched Chain Amino Acids, also known as "BCAA's", are in a ton of different during-exercise and post-exercise nutrition supplements. But it is a little known fact that in cancer patients who need to gain weight, BCAA's are actually used to stimulate appetite and help people to eat more. Obviously, if you're trying to lose weight or control appetite, eating a handful of BCAA's in the evening before dinner may not be such a good idea. This is only a worry for a select few folks who are focusing on appetite control and weight loss, but is certainly good to know if you regularly experience food cravings.
Nutrition Supplement Mistake #4: Taking Proteolytic Enzymes on a Full Stomach
Protelytic enzymes, like BCAA's, are found quite regularly in recovery-based nutrition supplements. Check the nutrition label of your recovery nutrition supplement for words like "papain", "bromelain", "trypsin" and "chymotrypsin" – these are all proteolytic enzymes. The primary benefit of these enzymes is to enhance recovery by decreasing inflammation. But the inflammation-reducing benefit of proteolytic enzymes is significantly decreased when the enzymes are taken on a full stomach or with a meal. Therefore, popping your post-exercise proteolytic enzymes with your post-exercise meal is not the best idea.
Instead, take any supplements containing proteolytic enzymes on an empty stomach, such as in the mid-morning or mid-afternoon, or even right before you go to bed at night. If you tend to wait for 1-2 hours post-exercise to eat a meal, this would also be a good time to take proteolytic enzyme nutrition supplements.
Nutrition Supplement Mistake #5: Not Timing Fat Burning Supplements Properly
The premise behind "fat burning" supplements is that they contain components such as insulin and blood sugar stabilizing components such as chromium, vanadium or even cinnamon. From a strategic standpoint, these compounds should be absorbed and active in your body well prior to eating a meal. Swallowing a fat-burning supplement with breakfast, directly before breakfast, or directly after a meal is not going to do much for you. So the best time to take a fat-burning supplement is 30-60 minutes prior to consuming your 2-3 main meals of the day. Incidentally, I do not recommend high caffeine or ephedra based fat burning supplements, as they can be hard on your adrenal glands and central nervous system.
Nutrition Supplement Mistake #6: Allowing Fish Oil or Flax Oil To Get Warm
When the fragile oils in fish oil, flax seed oil, or just about any other seed or vegetable based oil becomes warm or heated, the oil can become oxidized, and form free radicals that can do cellular damage to your body. A warm fish oil does you more harm than good. So if you drive in your car with fish oil or flax oil sitting in a gym bag on the back seat, this is a very bad idea. So is traveling to a race with fat-based nutrition supplements in your backpack or race bag, if it is going to be in a hot airplane compartment or sitting in the sun. It would be better not take these nutrition supplements at all if that will be the case.
Instead, keep fish oil or flax oil type supplements in your refrigerator or freezer, and keep them as cool as possible when traveling. If they do get warm, throw them out. They're not going to do you any good at that point.
Why has the disagreement about the nature of Lyme disease reached a dead end? The CDC estimates that over 300,000 American people contract Lyme disease every year. Lyme disease is an infectious disease — as are Zika and West Nile and swine flu and bird flu viruses that the public health agency has sounded alarms about, except that Lyme is far more pervasive than all of these put together — whose sheer numbers of acute infection demand greater federal investment. Journalists never ask the CDC or the National Institutes of Health why they invest so little in research. By comparison, NIH invests $3 billion per year in researching HIV, which is contracted by 44,000 people annually; invested $1.1 billion in combating Zika in 2016, which to date has infected a few thousand American people ever; and NIH invests an average $25 million per year in researching Lyme, which is contracted by 300,000 people annually, up to 30,000 of whom do not recover after they are (according to the CDC) cured of their illnesses. News organizations of record The New York Times and the Washington Post eagerly relay unmediated statistics and quotes provided by CDC spokespeople. One might expect investigative journalists at least to ask some probing questions or, dare I suggest, independently research claims made by agency spokespeople to determine veracity and whether the information provided represents the full scope of reality. I have never seen an article from a major news organization that did this — with the exception of a multi-faceted collection of essays written from different perspectives published by the New York Times in 2013. That was a good start to responsible coverage of this disease. Unfortunately, it was also a dead end.
How can such an extraordinary contradiction exist between news coverage of personal stories about Lyme disease and stories that address Lyme as a public health concern? Whether they present stories of celebrities or lay people or medical mysteries, human-interest stories about arduous Lyme experiences tend to be raw and brutally honest, told from the patients’ perspective. These stories, relayed regularly in news media, have a common thread of patients usually being dismissed and denigrated by medical professionals before being diagnosed and undergoing treatment that is sometimes, but certainly not always, successful in improving patients’ health. But then stories about Lyme disease as a public health issue tend to be directly contradictory: usually, they are told by infectious disease specialists and CDC representatives, and they state unabashedly that Lyme disease is absolutely not a long-term chronic illness, that it is always curable with antibiotics administered over a maximum of one month, and that patients who are diagnosed and treated with “chronic Lyme” (this term is invariably put into quotation marks to undermine those who use it) absolutely do not have a chronic infection — period. Both of these stories — the patient perspective and the joint infectious disease specialist and CDC perspective — are common, coexisting often within the same publications. What drives me crazy is that investigative journalists simply ignore the light year-sized chasm of questions that exists between these stories. If the ID specialists and the CDC are correct, then why do many doctors and researchers believe that long-term Lyme disease infection can occur? Why has the NIH not funded research to conclusively determine once and for all what the reality is? Infectious disease specialists admit that patients whose infections they claim have been cured may remain ill — but presumably with something that is not an infection. The CDC likewise observes this and states that patients should pursue diagnosis for a different illness; however, patients say that they’ve exhausted all diagnostic options, and that only Lyme disease specialists treat them, and the treatment helps, even if it doesn’t necessarily cure the illness. Does Lyme disease trigger some other sort of illness that is not infectious in nature? After so many decades, where is the medical research? Why has the NIH not funded research if up more than 300,000 Americans are infected with Lyme each year and tens of thousands never recover, even after treatment? Why is such a pervasive epidemic relegated to rare-disease status?
How can an epidemic hide in plain sight, and how can journalists tell both sides of this story without ever investigating the extraordinary contradictions?
Burning throat, warm stomach, nausea - Doctor's insight on HealthcareMagic
my son and I both woke up feeling like our throats were on fire, but at the same time my stomach seemed warm. I came down stairs to get a drink and then before I drank the water I dry heaved twice, but didnt throw up. My son is having the same problem but throwing up. I have never had any symptoms like this, after I drank the water it seemed to calm down for a bit but I still have the feeling. my son keeps throwing up.
After reading your question it seems like both of you were ok prior to all this, so, most likely it is related to what you ate/ drank last night, which has lead to stomach upset. looks like food poisoning.
It is not serious condition but you should visit a doctor, get blood counts and start some antibiotics straight away. Your son is still having vomitings, so it will be beneficial that he takes injectables antiemetic and antibiotics first two shots and later may switch to oral medicines.
It is unlikely to respond with any home remedy, and meeting a doctor is a must.
You may go for ultra sound abdomen of after examination your doctor says so.
so, please see the doctor and get the right treatment. I can assure you from my clinical experience that it will get better with first dose of medicine only!
Dr. Poonam Suraj - Book Appointment Online, View Fees, Feedbacks | Practo
SCDC was established in 2004. It is led by Dr.Poonam Suraj who has specialized in the field of cosmetic dentistry from the prestigious New York University, School of dentistry. She is a Nobel fellow in Implantology and Esthetic dentistry.
'Sai Apporva', No.15, 1st Cross Street, Vijaya Nagar, Velachery. Landmark: Opp.to Apollo Pharmacy & Tamil Nadu Pharmacy., Chennai
Feedback for Dr. Poonam Suraj
Excellent client service. I had the treatment with good care and meticulous process. The treatment happened as.per the scheduled time. They charged nominal rate *** ******** **** ********** I will choose this doctor going forward for all dental relates ailments. Thank you.
I had a couple of times consultation and treatment from Dr. Poonam and I feel she is very cooperative with the patient and listens problem carefully and often details about the health issues to the patient. *** ****** ***** ** ** *********** **** ***** *** *** ** *** ** *** **** ******* * **** ****** ** ****
Very nice, polite and makes you feel completely at home. Best for hindi speaking patients who do not speak tamil and have reservations speaking in english.
Johns Hopkins Health Disparities Researcher Lisa Cooper Named to Presidential Advisory Council – India Education | Latest Education News | Global Educational News | Recent Educational News
Cooper, a Bloomberg Distinguished Professor, among experts appointed to President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology
Lisa Cooper, a pioneering public health disparities researcher, general internist, and professor at Johns Hopkins University, has been appointed by President Joe Biden to the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology, or PCAST, the White House announced today.
PCAST is one of the most prominent and distinguished White House advisory panels, counseling the president on developments related to science, innovation, and technology, including health and medicine. In an executive order establishing the council earlier this year, Biden highlighted the group's role in providing pivotal scientific and technological data-driven expertise to inform his administration's evidence-based decision making.
"I join all my Johns Hopkins colleagues in celebrating Dr. Lisa Cooper's well-deserved appointment to PCAST. At a moment when the COVID pandemic has once again exposed the devastating impact of health care disparities, Dr. Cooper brings to her new role decades of pioneering contributions to the field of health care equity and an enduring commitment to uniting bracing research with effective policy and impactful community-based initiatives to ensure equal dignity, opportunity and flourishing for all," JHU President Ron Daniels said. "We are truly honored to have Dr. Cooper as part of our Hopkins academic community. She will be an extraordinary addition to the renewed and reinvigorated PCAST as she and her peers take up society's greatest scientific and technological challenges and help build a safer, healthier, and more equitable nation and world."
Cooper is a professor in the Department of Health, Behavior and Society at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health and a Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg Distinguished Professor at the schools of Medicine, Nursing, and Public Health. She is also the James F. Fries Professor of Medicine at the School of Medicine.
Cooper is the founder and director of the Johns Hopkins Center for Health Equity, a transdisciplinary research center working to fortify health care institutions, communities, and health policies with a goal of ending health disparities at the local, national, and international level. She also directs the Johns Hopkins Urban Health Institute, which aims to strengthen health and health equity in the Baltimore community. Cooper joined the Johns Hopkins University faculty in 1994.
"Inequities in access to education, health care, and economic opportunities are among the most serious problems we face in the U.S. and around the world," Cooper said. "I'm honored to be invited to serve as a member of President Biden's President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. I hope to use this opportunity to translate my own and other scientists' research findings to help ensure that Americans of all racial and socioeconomic backgrounds are engaged in and benefit from the creation and the rewards of science and technology."
Born in Liberia, Cooper credits her early experiences witnessing social inequality with fueling her passion for health equity, and she has dedicated her career to leading health disparities research. Her work has provided some of the earliest evidence of disparities in the relationship quality between doctors and patients from marginalized backgrounds. Cooper has created a range of interventions to foster patient-physician communication and curb disparities in the health care system. Her research has transformed approaches to providing equitable health care, including how culturally targeted, patient-centered care can improve outcomes for Black American patients with depression and how increased patient participation and attention to health-related social needs can improve hypertension control for Black American patients.
"We commend President Biden for appointing Dr. Lisa Cooper to the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology," said Ellen J. MacKenzie, dean of the Bloomberg School. "Lisa's extraordinary contributions to addressing health inequities, from the highest policy levels to the community-level doctor's office, will enhance the council's excellent work. She is committed to engaging the public in trusting science, and this role provides the ideal opportunity for her work to have even greater national impact."
Cooper is a 2007 recipient of a MacArthur Foundation "Genius" Award for exploring disparities in the quality of patient care and interventions to promote effective patient-physician communication and a member of the National Academy of Medicine. She has served as a mentor to dozens of current and aspiring medical, public health, and nursing professionals.
"Dr. Cooper is an acknowledged leader in raising awareness about the central importance of health disparities in our society," said Paul B. Rothman, dean of the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and CEO of Johns Hopkins Medicine. "We are so proud that she has been appointed to serve on the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology. I am confident that her thoughtful guidance will have a significant impact in the months and years to come."
Cooper earned her bachelor's degree in chemistry from Emory University. She completed her medical degree at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, a post-doctoral fellowship in general internal medicine at Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, and her Master of Public Health at the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. She assumed her role as a Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg Distinguished Professor in 2017.
Cooper is the author of Why Are Health Disparities Everyone's Problem? (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2021), which addresses how health disparities permeate our society and explores the actions we can take to create a healthier, more equitable world.
PCAST is a direct descendent of the scientific advisory committee established by President Dwight Eisenhower in 1957. With its new members, PCAST is now the most diverse Council to date, with regard to race, ethnicity, gender, and scientific disciplines, and includes a mix of council members with academic roles and those who come from the private sector.
Welcome to A Bright Future Pediatrics! We are so happy that you have chosen to make us your child's medical home. We strive to create an atmosphere that is friendly and warm for our patients and look forward to taking care of your children for years to come. The Practice is growing, and we would like to help the patients and parents make a smooth transition in regard to changes that will be taking place. We hope the following information is helpful in informing everyone to our office and provides a more pleasant environment.
We have provided sick and well waiting areas for your convenience. If you come to the office with more than one child and one of your children is sick, then you must report to the sick waiting room. Children who are newborns and children here for a well exam, recheck, or follow up exam from a previous illness but are feeling much better should report to the well waiting room.
Sick Appointments: Sick Appointments are scheduled as same day appointments only. There may be a wait time as we will be working you in between the regular scheduled appointments.
Well Child Appointments: We recommend scheduling well visits 6-8 weeks in advance. This assures that your child will have their well visit and immunizations on time.
Cancellations: If you should need to cancel a scheduled well or other visit, please notify our office 24 hours in advance so that we may accommodate families who are on a waiting list for an earlier appointment. Failure to cancel your appointment within 24 hours will result in a $25.00 charge. This charge must be paid prior to scheduling your next appointment.
No-Shows: There may be a $75.00 no show fee for every no show appointment. After 2 no-shows, we require that a $75 deposit be paid in advance and a credit card be put on file in order to make the appointment.
Appointment Not canceled 24 hours in advance Fee $25.00
No Show for Appointments Fee $75.00
Our office policy states that 3 or more no-shows are grounds for dismissal from the practice. This is not to be uncaring; it is an effort to continue prompt care throughout the day for our ill children. These charges will not be billed to your insurance company; you will be responsible for payment Late for Schedule Appointments If you are going to be more than 15 minutes late, please call our office so we can reschedule your appointment for a more convenient time. If your child is sick, you may wait in the office and be worked in between patients. Please note there may be an extended wait time if you are late for your appointment.
By signing our Consent Acknowledgement Form, you acknowledge you agree and fully understand the Office Appointment Policy.
We have a physician on-call 7 days a week for emergencies only. We no longer have a nurse triage after hours. If you have routine questions, please call during our office hours. All after hour calls will be answered within a timely manner. There will be a $25.00 charge for all physician phone calls after regular business hours. If you have a question regarding medication dosage, please call your local 24-hour pharmacy or your insurance nurse line.
Our office has 15 business days to release your child's medical records. There will be a $25.00 charge for copying your child's chart for the first 30 pages, $0.25 for any additional page. Medical records may be transfer to another physician at no charge.
Shot Records/School Forms
Immunization records can be accessed and printed at any time from the patient portal found on our website. Immunization records will be released within 2-3 business days after request. Please allow 3-5 business days for your school, camp, and sports physical forms. There is a $10.00 charge for letters or forms needing more than a signature. Detailed forms and letters will be charged according to the amount of time required to complete.
Please allow our office 72 hours for prescription refills. Medication refills will only be done during our normal business hours. The on-call physician will not prescribe non-urgent refills after hours or on weekends. For new prescriptions, the patient must be seen prior to any new prescriptions.
Please request all prescription refills via Patient Portal.
Login to the website with a unique and secure login ID and update your contact information. Look-up your child's most recent visit including the date, weight, and height at last visit. Review and print your child's vaccination and allergy records including a record of vaccines administered. Request appointments for well visits and prescription refills. Request referrals or school/camp forms (which can be emailed to the patient after reviewed by physician). Contact the Nursing department with a non-urgent question. For the usage of this portal and online statements, please make sure that our office has your current email address and that all of your information has been updated within the last 6 months.
Please go to our website at www.ABrightFuturePediatrics.com, and on the top you will see the link to the patient portal.
Any messages sent to the doctor, nursing, billing, or receptionist department will be handled in the order in which they are received within a 24 hour regular business period. Please do not contact us via patient portal with any urgent questions. Please call us at 972-208-8668.
Our physicians believe that all children should be fully immunized unless there are medical contradictions. Therefore, we are no longer accepting new patients/families unless they are willing to fully comply with the recommended timetable for vaccine administration per the American Academy of Pediatrics. We are committed to provide quality care and have a duty to protect our entire patient population.
This office is contracted with many different insurance plans. All patients are expected to provide our office with current insurance information and to understand their benefits. For the convenience of our patients, our providers participate in a variety of managed care plans. Our office also acts as an advocate for our patients with their managed care plans. This may include completing pre-certifications, eligibility verification, or other similar paperwork on behalf of the patient. Ultimately, the patient is responsible for understanding their benefits and providing our office with current information so that we can handle this paperwork on their behalf in a timely manner.
The patient (or patient's guardian, if a minor) is ultimately responsible for the payment for the patient's treatment and care.
Patients are responsible for the payment of co-pays, coinsurance, deductibles, and all other procedures or treatment not covered by their insurance plan. Payment is due at the time of service, and for your convenience, we accept cash and most major credit cards at our office.
Primary Care Physician: If you are required by your insurance company to select a primary care physician, this must be done prior to your child's appointment.
Our mission as a practice is to provide for the health and well-being of our patients. Your health insurance is a contract between you and your health insurance company. You are financially responsible for any non-covered services. By signing our Consent Acknowledgement Form, you acknowledge you agree and fully understand the Financial Obligation Policy.
I understand that, under the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act of 1996 ("HIPAA"), I have rights to privacy regarding my protected health information. I understand that this information can and will be used to:
Conduct, plan, and direct my treatment and follow-up among the multiple healthcare providers who may be involved in that treatment directly and indirectly. Obtain payments from third-party payers and conduct normal healthcare operations such as quality assessments and physician certifications. I understand that as part of my healthcare, A Bright Future Pediatrics originates and maintains health records describing my health history, symptoms, examination and test results, diagnoses, treatment and any plans for future care or treatment.
I have received, read, and understand your Notice of Privacy Practices containing a more complete description of the uses and disclosures of my health information. I understand that this organization has the right to change its Notice of Privacy Practices from time to time and that I may contact this organization at any time at the address above to obtain a current copy of the Notice of Privacy Practices. By signing our Consent Acknowledgement Form, you acknowledge you agree and fully understand the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act.
Patient Guidelines and Consent for Use of Patient Portal and E-mail Communications
This Patient Portal is provided by A Bright Future Pediatrics for the exclusive use of its patients and authorized parents, legal guardians, and other caregivers. By logging in, you attest that you are a member of one of the aforementioned groups and will use any confidential medical information that is disclosed to you only for its intended purposes. Any other use is strictly forbidden. If you believe that the security of your account has been compromised, please notify us immediately so we can reset your credentials.
To better serve our patients, this office has established an e-mail address for some forms of communication. For routine matters that do not require an immediate response, please feel free to contact us at any of the following emails:
Office1@abrightfuturepediatrics.com: You can use this e-mail for the following inquires: medical records, educational materials, and patient forms.
billing@abrightfuturepediatrics.com: You can use this e-mail for the following inquires: billing, payments, or insurance questions.
The turnaround time for a routine patient communication is typically within 2 business days; however, inquiries requiring extensive involvement of the physician may cause a delay in message delivery. Should you require urgent or immediate attention, this medium is not appropriate.
When sending an e-mail, please put the subject of the message in the subject line so we may process it more efficiently. Some forms of communication (e.g., HIV and mental health) are not appropriate for e-mails. Also, be sure to put the name and return telephone number in the body of the message. We also ask that you acknowledge receipt of e-mails coming from this office by using the auto reply feature.
Communication relating to diagnosis and treatment will be filed in your medical records.
This office is dedicated to keeping your medical record information confidential. Despite our best efforts, due to the nature of e-mail, third parties may have access to messages. When communicating from work, you should be aware that some companies consider e-mail corporate property and that your messages may be monitored. In addition, you should be aware that although an email may be addressed to one person, our staff and/or colleagues will have access to this information. By signing our Consent Acknowledgement Form, you acknowledge you agree and fully understand the Patient Guidelines and Consent for Use of Patient Portal and E-mail Communications.
SymBio Announces Completion of Patient Enrollment of TREAKISYM(R) (SyB L-0501) Phase II Trial in Frontline Low-Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Mantle Cell Lymphoma NewsSite
SymBio Announces Completion of Patient Enrollment of TREAKISYM® (SyB L-0501) Phase II Trial in Frontline Low-Grade Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma and Mantle Cell Lymphoma TOKYO--(Marketwire - Mar 6, 2013) - SymBio Pharmaceuticals Limited (JASDAQ: 4582) announced the completion of patient enrollment of its Phase II clinical trial of TREAKISYM® (bendamustine hydrochloride, SyB L-0501) in frontline low-grade non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL)1 and mantle cell lymphoma (MCL) patients in Japan. This randomized trial is evaluating the combination of TREAKISYM® and rituximab versus R-CHOP 2.
Bendamustine was first synthesized in the early 1960s in former 'East Germany' by Jenapharm, and is currently marketed in Germany under the brand name "Ribomustin®" as a treatment for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, multiple myeloma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. Mundipharma has received market authorization in a number of EU countries for bendamustine under the brand name "Levact®". In the United States, the drug has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and is marketed by TEVA as TREANDA® for the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia and relapsed indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. SymBio Pharmaceuticals Limited originally acquired the exclusive right from Astellas Deutschland GmbH (Headquarters: Munich, Germany, formerly Astellas Pharma GmbH) to develop and commercialize bendamustine in Japan (December, 2005), followed by a second license agreement for the exclusive regional rights to China/Hong Kong, Taiwan, South Korea and Singapore (March, 2007). About TREAKISYM®
SymBio Pharmaceuticals Ltd, established in March, 2005, by Fuminori Yoshida, who previously served concurrently as Corporate VP of Amgen Ltd. and founding President of Amgen Japan (currently Takeda Bio), aspires to be a leading commercial stage specialty pharmaceutical company in Asia Pacific dedicated to addressing underserved medical needs with main focus in the areas of oncology, hematology and autoimmune disease. The company's underlying corporate mission is "delivering hope to patients in need". Glossary
1Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: is a diverse group of blood cancers that include any type of lymphoma, excluding Hodgkin's lymphomas, in which B or T white blood cells (lymphocytes) develop malignant growths. The disease is categorized by progression and is divided into low-grade (slow-growing) and intermediate to high-grade (fast-growing) types. 2R-CHOP: Combination therapy of Rituximab, Cyclophosphamide, Doxorubicin, Vincristine, and Prednisolone.
