Pre-LASIK Examination for LASIK Surgery Procedure in Seattle
Preparing for the LASIK procedure begins with a pre-LASIK examination. King Lasik offers these examinations to you for free. Your doctor at King Lasik will conduct a full eye exam, asking about your eye history, and verifying that your prescription hasn't changed for at least a year. This exam will ultimately determine whether you're the right fit for a LASIK or PRK procedure.
Your eyes will be examined, scanned, and mapped during this preliminary exam, ensuring that the LASIK procedure will be as precise as possible. The evaluation process will include a number of steps such as a dilated exam to accurately measure your eye's refractive error or prescription, a corneal topographic map, a glaucoma test, a retinal evaluation, and several other tests.
If your eye's health, curvature and corneal thickness are suitable for LASIK, your doctor will let you know if you are a good candidate. If not, refractive surgery could result in unstable or unsatisfactory vision – harming you in the long run – so other vision correction options may be advised. After the exam, you'll talk to a refractive counselor. During this session, you'll be able to ask additional questions, discuss various options and pricing, and schedule your LASIK procedure.
Few Things to Remember in Preparing for LASIK
For example, if you're currently wearing contacts, you'll instead want to switch to glasses during the days leading up to surgery. Hard contact lenses should be removed at least one month prior to the procedure. This is crucial because contacts can distort the shape of your cornea and affect surgical results. You'll also want to leave off eye makeup or cream on both the day before and the day of the surgery to lower the risk of infection.
Arranging for someone to pick you up after the procedure is also essential since the effects of any medicine given to you before the surgery may not have abated yet and your vision may still be blurry. Preparing for the LASIK or PRK procedure in the proper way is very important in order to receive the best results possible.
SUPERVISOR, SOCIAL WORK SERVICES in San Diego, CA at Scripps Green Hospital
Scripps Green is a 173-bed hospital that has served the La Jolla and greater San Diego communities with distinction since 1977. Conveniently located off I-5 near the Genesee Avenue exit, our healthcare professionals care for people from a number of communities including Bird Rock, La Jolla Shores, Mount Soledad, University City and beyond. Scripps Green offers a wide range of clinical and surgical services, including organ transplantation, oncology care, cardiothoracic and orthopedic surgery, interventional cardiology and blood and bone marrow transplant.
Be the face of Social Work Services at Scripps Green Hospital and positively impact the lives of our patients!
As the working Supervisor of Social Work Services, you will primarily provide supervision of the social work staff. This role will also carry a caseload with the responsibility of timely, effective discharge planning for inpatients; and will oversee the caseload of other members of the social work team. Other responsibilities include psychosocial evaluations, consultation, referral and triage of patients.
Additionally, you will provide clinical supervision, training and consultation for social workers at Scripps Green Hospital.
This is a Full Time (80 Hours per pay period) Exempt Supervisor position located at Scripps Green Hospital.
Master's degree in Social Work; must meet the requirements for clinical supervision of social work staff (LCSW).
Bentley by Madi Lane, she’s poised and picturesque as her modern sleek European crepe hugs her feminine form.	
Birdie by Madi Lane, she’s botanical in her design featuring a whimsical Aline silhouette with a soft tulle skirt overlay creating nothing but romance.	
Like the goddess of love, Blayne is the epitome of traditional romance. Her soft fit and flare silhouette is a slim-line version of Madi Lane’s iconic tulle romantic designs	
Bobbie, she’s joyous in the way she moves as her ever-popular Aline silhouette sweeps around in a pleated flocked spot tulle – a refreshing change to the more traditional floral lace.	

Radial distribution function imaging by STEM diffraction: a method development in resolving the mysteries of amorphous materials
Recognition and measurements of nanoparticles in TEM/STEM images by fitting the model grayscale distribution to the real one: new approach for automated statistical analysis.
Revisiting the EELS analyses and its coupling with multi-wavelength Raman spectroscopy: the case of hydrogenated amorphous carbon thin films

Mental health and misinformation may be two risks that are currently being widely underestimated, in much the same way that pandemics and infectious diseases were only considered the eighth-most-important emerging risk last year, according to Axa.
“This year, we highlight two additional risks that may be underestimated for now: mental health and misinformation. These are not new, yet both threats have the potential to grow exponentially in the aftermath of Covid-19.”
Only 7% of surveyed experts identified changing health practices and new occupational diseases, including mental health, as a major emerging risk to society, meaning it does not even enter the top 20 most- important threats.
“Depression affects 264 million people globally. Suicide is the second-leading cause of death in those aged 15–29, and more than one in five people that live in a region impacted by conflict have a mental health condition.1 The human cost is vast, but so too is the impact on the economy: depression and anxiety cost the global economy more than $1tn per year.”
Although the scale of the mental health crisis was apparent before Covid-19 unfolded, the United Nations predicts that the pandemic has the potential to make the situation much worse, potentially causing a major global mental health crisis that will affect children, young people, and healthcare workers.
Ciclosporin compared with prednisolone therapy for patients with pyoderma gangrenosum: cost-effectiveness analysis of the STOP GAP trial*
J. M. Mason; K. S. Thomas; A. D. Ormerod; F. E. Craig; E. Mitchell; J. Norrie; H. C. Williams
Author Information: Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, U.K.
Pyoderma gangrenosum (PG) is a painful, ulcerating skin disease with poor evidence for management. Prednisolone and ciclosporin are the most commonly used treatments, although not previously compared within a randomized controlled trial (RCT).
Quality of life (QoL, EuroQoL five dimensions three level questionnaire, EQ-5D-3L) and resource data were collected as part of the STOP GAP trial: a multicentre, parallel-group, observer-blind RCT. Within-trial analysis used bivariate regression of costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), with multiple imputation of missing data, informing a probabilistic assessment of incremental treatment cost-effectiveness from a health service perspective.
In the base case analysis, when compared with prednisolone, ciclosporin was cost-effective due to a reduction in costs [net cost: −£1160; 95% confidence interval (CI) −2991 to 672] and improvement in QoL (net QALYs: 0·055; 95% CI 0·018–0·093). However, this finding appears driven by a minority of patients with large lesions (≥ 20 cm2) (net cost: −£5310; 95% CI −9729 to −891; net QALYs: 0·077; 95% CI 0·004–0·151). The incremental cost-effectiveness of ciclosporin for the majority of patients with smaller lesions was £23 374/QALY, although the estimate is imprecise: the probability of being cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay of £20 000/QALY was 43%.
Consistent with the clinical findings of the STOP GAP trial, patients with small lesions should receive treatment guided by the side-effect profiles of the drugs and patient preference – neither strategy is clearly a preferred use of National Health Service resources. However, ciclosporin-initiated treatment may be more cost-effective for patients with large lesions.
Promoting members' public health research, and advocating for the health and well-being of everyone in Australia
Menu
About
Contribute
PHAA
ANZJPH
Contact
Search for:
Search Button
10 ways we can better respond to the pandemic in a trauma-informed way
phaahealth October 8, 2021 October 8, 2021 COVID-19, Indigenous health
Post navigation
Previous
Next
By Christina Heris, Australian National University; Catherine Chamberlain, The University of Melbourne; Cindy Woods, The University of Melbourne; Helen Herrman, The University of Melbourne; Janine Mohamed; Michelle Kennedy, University of Newcastle; Shannon Bennetts, La Trobe University, and Simon Graham, The University of Melbourne
Fear is one of the central emotional responses during the pandemic. Every day brings a new level of stress: concerns about getting sick, the stigma of testing positive, financial difficulties due to not being able to work, separation from loved ones in lockdown (or being locked in an unsafe household). The list goes on.
For many of us, uncomfortable feelings can be “natural” responses to a “threat”. Our strong, primitive defence or “threat response” (sometimes called “fight, flight or freeze”) has enabled human beings to survive. This stress response is essential for survival against poisonous snakes, crocodiles and other dangerous situations.
Unfortunately, our “threat responses” are not good at recognising the difference between the “threat” from a crocodile and a pandemic. These responses happen much faster than any conscious thought.
It can be particularly hard for people already experiencing complex post-traumatic stress disorder or trauma associated with earlier exposure to severe, repeated and inescapable threats or abuse, often from those meant to protect them.
As the pandemic hit last year, we were working on the Healing the Past by Nurturing the Future project, which aims to improve support for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander parents experiencing complex trauma.
We asked ourselves whether the public health response to the pandemic can take into account people’s previous trauma.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in the US thought so when it integrated key principles of trauma-informed care into training for its Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response in 2018.
Read more:
Whiteness in the time of COVID: Australia’s health services still leaving vulnerable communities behind
Taking core concepts from our research and guiding principles, we identified 10 principles that may decrease stress or trauma by fostering a sense of security, well-being, confidence, hope and resilience.
1. Safety
The first priority of any emergency or “trauma-informed response” is to ensure physical safety from the immediate threat (like first aid principles). This includes the safety of people most at risk during lockdowns (for example, those experiencing family violence).
2. Connectedness and collaboration
Humans are social beings and being “connected” is another essential survival strategy that is more helpful to us in the pandemic than “fighting, fleeing, or freezing”.
When we have social support, it’s easier to take action in an emergency. But it’s not easy staying “socially connected” yet “physical distanced” in an infectious disease outbreak.
Read more:
The community-led movement creating hope in the time of coronavirus
Inequitable responses to the pandemic can also lead to divisions in society, such as when one community appears to receive greater financial support or an unfair allocation of vaccines.
However, looking after each other is our ticket out of here. We have seen this with the global scientific collaborations in the quest to create COVID-19 vaccines.
3. Compassion and caring
Acts of kindness, compassion and caring are needed more now than ever. Compassion and empathy promote well-being and we know social supports act as a buffer against difficult times.
Understanding stress and distress responses is an important way to “normalise” our feelings, and the actions of others.
4. Trust and transparency
Clear, compassionate action and transparent communication from governments are also important. These things increase a sense of safety and potential for people to follow public health advice.
Hiding information leads to distrust in government and the media. This can contribute to mistrust in COVID-19 responses and lead to non-compliance.
A lack of information and exposure to misinformation can also increase distress, and leave people vulnerable to conspiracists who target marginalised groups most at risk.
Rebuilding trust in an emergency may not be possible, but this is where trusted community partners become invaluable mediators and sources of truth for communities.
Read more:
Vaccinations need to reach 90% of First Nations adults and teens to protect vulnerable communities
5. Cultural safety and responsiveness
Public health approaches and messaging needs to be appropriate and sensitive to local contexts.
Communities need health messaging that draws on cultural strengths to increase trust and access to services, such as the way Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community-controlled health organisations quickly mobilised to take control of the local response to COVID-19.
6. Commitment to equity and human rights
COVID-19 has not had the same impact on everyone.
Many people, including Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander and refugee communities, are affected by historical and intergenerational trauma, racism, and ongoing socio-economic deprivation.
These things can be exacerbated in this current crisis. We must address the socio-cultural determinants that can impact people’s health, such as insecure work and housing, and focus on equity.
7. Good communication
Crisis communication principles say messages are most likely to be effective when they are clear, credible and interactive, shared consistently, and targeted to community groups.
The public may feel the need to seek information to manage their anxiety, but distressing content can also increase their feelings of stress, confusion, and a lack of control, impacting their ability to take action.
The media play a critical role here. Accessing trustworthy, reliable information through these channels is important so people know what action to take and where they can go for help.
8. Positive leadership
Good governance helps us feel safe.
It’s important for the government to be highly visible, provide regular updates and practical support, and help people understand and manage feelings of stress.
But we don’t just need leadership from politicians and officials. Local leaders also need to support their communities to process fear, grief and loss, and to help people understand the crisis will pass and there is hope.
This was on show when Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander community-controlled organisations took quick action to protect their communities from COVID-19.
9. Empowerment
Individual and community empowerment comes from having choice, voice, and control. This promotes the confidence to respond to an emergency, as well as resilience, hope and the ability to cope.
Communities that are empowered to play an active role in disaster response actually recover better, with lower rates of post-traumatic stress. However, communities must be adequately resourced to do this.
10. Holistic support
We need big responses that address health and safety, social and emotional well-being, community connectivity and cultural responsiveness to improve quality of life, relationships and social functioning.
However, effective emergency responses must be embedded in well-functioning social systems, including emergency social and economic support and high-quality healthcare services everyone can access when needed.
Our next step will be to discuss these 10 principles with community members and public health experts in an October workshop, to develop a culturally responsive, trauma-informed, public health emergency framework for First Nations communities.
This pandemic is far from over and there is now a race to vaccinate communities that have been left behind as states open up. A trauma-informed public health emergency response is possible. And with cases due to rise just as the next bushfire and cyclone seasons arrive, we need one now.
Christina Heris, Research Fellow, Australian National University;
Catherine Chamberlain, Professor Indigenous Health Equity, The University of Melbourne;
Cindy Woods, Research Fellow, The University of Melbourne;
Helen Herrman, Professor, The University of Melbourne;
Janine Mohamed, Distinguished Fellow and CEO;
Michelle Kennedy, Senior research fellow, University of Newcastle;
Shannon Bennetts, Research Fellow, Judith Lumley Centre at La Trobe University, La Trobe University,
and Simon Graham, NHMRC Fellow, Peter Doherty Institute for Infection and Immunity, The University of Melbourne
This article is republished from The Conversation under a Creative Commons license. Read the original article.
Image: A man with dreadlocks and a hat smiles as he dries the hair of a small boy. Photo by John Christian Fjellestad/Flickr.
Share this:
Tweet
Like this:
Like Loading...
Coronavirus, Health equity, Mental Health, Public Health
Post navigation
Previous A rallying call for public health to refocus efforts, on building government for the public’s good
Does Stress Increase Acid Reflux - The Physicians Palette
Stress and a poor diet. rich in fruits and vegetables can also increase your stomach acid levels. Processed foods and sugars can cause inflammation in your stomach, decrease acid activity, and.
Those dance moves increase your metabolism allowing your body to burn more. that hip-hop dance is a good way of boosting cognitive abilities. Brings down your acid reflux episodes Yes, this is.
"There are certain things that can cause reflux or gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD. Staying upright can help reduce stress on the stomach and esophagus. Another way to reduce stress on these.
Acid reflux. It can make your holidays anything but merry. endosurgery at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, said the stress of the holiday season certainly attributes to an increase in acid.
But drinking caffeine every day can increase your risk of. can also produce a lot of stomach acid. Either way, you're in for tummy trouble if you consume too much caffeine. Caffeine promotes the.
26, 2006 – Proton-pump inhibitors — the popular drugs that fight stomach acid — increase the risk of hip fractures. must be interpreted in the context of other data. "This study does not.
As an adult he complained to doctors for years about chest pains only to be told it was due to stress. Untreated it can lead to esophageal cancer, which is often deadly. Like many people,
They say there has been increase in the number. asthma patients to be suffering from stress. "In the case of acid reflux, the irritation of the membrane in the throat causes cough and sometimes.
As we celebrate International Dance today, here is a list of health benefits that this performing art yields Yes, dancing is a fabulous way to get rid of your day-to-day stress. that few of us know.
But this diet in particular may not be for you if you're living with acid reflux. What is the keto diet? The keto diet is characterized by a reduction in carbohydrates and a relative increase in.
This may increase the. support system can also lessen heart health," explains Pamela Douglas, M.D., cardiologist and professor at the Duke Center for Women's Heart Care. 6. You took certain.
Providence Health & Services Jobs - Clinical Documentation Specialist ( RN required )- Home Health (potential ability to mostly work remote) in Burbank, California, United States
Providence Health & Services Clinical Documentation Specialist ( RN required )- Home Health (potential ability to mostly work remote) in Burbank, California
Providence is calling a full time, day shift Document Review Specialist to Providence Saint Joseph Home Health in Burbank, CA.
This position will potentially afford the opportunity to work remotely, but will need to work in Burbank a few times monthly.
Click on the youtube link to learn more about Providence: Providence You Tube Channel at https://www.youtube.com/user/providenceca
Maintain professional and ethical practice in accordance with Providence core values.
Be responsible for continuous assessment of agency processes to insure compliance with government regulations and accreditation standards.
Act as a resource to the Home Care clinicians and the leadership team regarding standards, policies, and regulations.
Assist the Administrator of Providence Home Care in supporting the philosophy, objectives and policies of the agency.
Requires a current California State Registered Nurse License
Minimum of five years experience in home care
Requires a minimum of 2 years of experience in ICD9 coding.
Requires fluent ability to understand oral and written English, including English text.
Requires intermediate knowledge of Microsoft Word, Windows and Excel. Requires the ability to type efficiently.
Art by Translation is a research and exhibition program initiated by the École Nationale Supérieure d'Arts de Paris-Cergy and the École Supérieure d'Art et de Design TALM-Angers, directed by Maud Jacquin and Sébastien Pluot, founding directors and Jeff Guess, pedagogical director. It is supported by the French Ministry of Culture and collaborates with a host of international academic and art institutions.
Art by Translation is a postgraduate program that involves 4 artists and curators selected for each year-long session. They attend the program in its different international contexts and contribute to research, participate in seminars and workshops with students from the host cities and produce new works presented in the Art by Translation exhibitions and events.
Each session's research focus is defined in such a way as to be disseminated across a variety of disciplinary contexts (fine arts, dance, film, writing, art history and theory, architecture, design, etc.). For the first session, the research focuses on the processes and ideological stakes of translation in the arts. The research subjects for following years are defined as extensions or outgrowths of previously developed issues.
The program considers the notion of process as a crucial feature for the production and diffusion of critical art and theory. As Mel Bochner has stated, the goal is "not to make art but to do art." The art projects and research experimentations this program seeks to develop are based on a conception of artworks and exhibitions as generative. Research is conceived as a permanent process of translation and dissemination. Art by Translation thus incorporates a flexible approach allowing projects to develop organically in various contexts and in a variety of formats: artworks, architectural constructions, exhibitions, study sessions, workshops, symposia and publications with invited artists and lecturers.
Its model aims to foster an experimental context for research and art practices. The discussions, debates, and collaborations that typically take place at the margins of exhibitions are expanded and engaged throughout the curatorial process, and materialized as part of the exhibition itself. In foregrounding research and upsetting the temporal limits of curatorial conventions, the program seeks to fill existing gaps in pedagogical and exhibition practices and to propose a model of collaboration among art schools, universities, and exhibition venues with the involvement of artists, historians, theoreticians, and curators across many disciplines.
The program tends to break with the conventional chronology of "research-exhibition-publication" and aims to reconfigure the boundaries between disciplines. Projects (exhibitions, artworks, texts) are not considered as final results but rather as stages in a process and points of departure for further elaborations. The program creates collaborative situations in which artists and curators produce both individual and collective projects. What is emphasized are the debates and ideas generated by the collaborative situations. Art by Translation produces an evolving research archive that grows and takes on different forms while adapting to different contexts. This archive serves as a basis for interpretation or reactivation rather than constituting an inactive memory of projects. This website presents these archives along with documentation and publications from various events and productions.
December 7, 2017, 7:43 am / knoxhagi681.ampedpages.com
The Lasik operation can be a wonderful, life-altering option for lots of people whose vision is less than ideal. There are a number of different types of Lasik operations now available, from the initial and well recorded treatment to Lasik treatments made with 3 dimensional wavefronts, or done entirely with lasers. Each of these variations of the Lasik procedure ought to be talked about with the doctor that is to perform the operation.
Often checking out the scary stories of the outcomes of a Lasik procedure can deter people from seriously considering such a choice. It is likewise true that the large numbers of people who have a successful, trouble-free Lasik surgical treatment tend not to report a long and detailed story of their experience, unlike those that have experienced problem later.
It is good to understand what the possible side effects of the Lasik treatment are, and also the likelihood that one of these side results will happen for a particular client. Much like any medication we take, each has a possible number of side effects, but we typically assume that the likelihood of a severe side effect is little, and we take the medicine anyhow. This article will hopefully put issues of the potential Lasik patient into point of view so that they can calmly and attentively ponder having a Lasik treatment done in the future.
More than one million Lasik treatments are carried out in the United States every year, inning accordance with the FDA. This arm of the national federal government has accumulated the following stats for the most common negative effects of the Lasik procedure. These stats will also differ by the physician carrying out the surgical treatment, so ensure to get as much details on the prospective Lasik physician as possible.
After Lasik surgical treatment, 1.7 percent of clients experience some glare or level of sensitivity to light after the operation. This varies by client, however this level of sensitivity is especially noticeable when looking at a brilliant light, such as a streetlight when strolling during the night, or other strong light and dark contrast. Another light related important link side effect is a halo around a light, and this occurs in 3.5 percent of Lasik patients.
The new, corrected vision can be discovered quickly by some Lasik patients, in as little as a couple of hours after surgical treatment. The majority of patients that have actually gone through the Lasik treatment find the modification is permanent within a couple of days. In 2.6 percent of customers that have actually had a Lasik procedure done, there is persistent visual variation within a minimum of a part of their sphere of vision.
Finally, some clients do not get a fully fixed sphere of vision after their Lasik procedure. This occurs with a small number of clients, and the FDA data are that only 3 percent of patients have this result. In all or nearly all cases, the doctor in charge will carry out an extra Lasik procedure to enhance this.
This detailing of the significant irreversible negative effects of the Lasik treatment must put any personal scary stories into perspective. Notice that none of the portions are above 3 percent, and this ought to bring comfort to many potential Lasik clients. It needs to also encourage them to look carefully at the Lasik physician's individual record.
There are a useful source number of various types of Lasik operations now offered, from the initial and well recorded treatment to Lasik procedures done with 3 dimensional wavefronts, or done completely with lasers. It is excellent to understand what the possible side effects of the Lasik procedure are, and likewise the probability that one of these side impacts will happen for a specific client. Most clients that have actually gone through the Lasik procedure discover the change is long-term within a couple of days. check that Some clients do not get a fully remedied sphere of vision after their Lasik procedure.
Also, not the same standard of tests are available everywhere. This has caused different governments and different health authorities to develop different testing guidelines. So the reason why the Window Period is different in Massachusetts is different from Singapore is not because humans in the US react differently to HIV compared to humans in Singapore. It is because of local guidelines.
The following graph was prepared based on the latest information on Testing for the Diagnosis of HIV Infection.
1. If you are within the first 10 days of possible HIV infection (aka the Eclipse Period), don’t bother doing any tests. There are NO tests that are accurate.
If the RNA PCR test gives a report of less than 5000 viral copies per ml, it is likely a false positive.
