Compliance – David B. Adams, Ph.D., FAACP, board certified psychologist
Home » Dr. David B. Adams – Psychological Blog » Obstacles » Compliance
Compliance: His wife called and said that he has been very depressed. So we scheduled him for an appointment. He has failed to show for almost all appointments. A spouse may be more aware of a change in mood than the authorized treating physician.
Because a wife feels her husband is depressed is not sufficient to guarantee compliance by the patient. Male patients will decry that care is not needed, not helpful, not something they believe can be effective and even that care does not apply to them. As one patient stated, "I don't need to talk about it; I just need my fingers to grow back."
Male patients are often loathe to accept depression as a diagnosis. They are even less often willing to talk about that which makes them feel helpless, how they feel about not being the breadwinner and/or the impact of this upon the marriage and especially the bedroom.
As implausible as it may sound, they would sooner nap away the days, watch television, neglect self-care, and complain bitterly than mobilize and address alternatives.At any time, between 5% and 9% of women and between 2% and 3% of men have diagnosable major depressive disorder. It is a common, and a commonly recurring, disorder. Half of those who have one major depressive disorder will have a second, and greater than three quarters of these will have a third occurrence.
Pain will increase the probability of the disorder and/or the recurrence of the disorder in those with a previous major depressive episode.
It is, therefore, not unusual for major depressive disorder to occur following injury. This is heightened by intense chronic pain, by financial hardship, arising family strife and the belief that a return to employment is improbable.
It has long been known and well established that the treatment of choice is psychotherapy and anti-depressant medication. Patients frequently discontinue their medication or fail to take it as prescribed. Just as frequently, they fail to consult their physician before adjusting their own dosage or electing to discontinue. Adherence can be divided into persistence (whether the patient continues) and compliance (whether the patients take medication as directed).
While it is unquestionably important to anticipate depression after an injury, it may often be necessary to accept that the patient will deny, dismiss, or even ridicule the need for care." A patient who is depressed after injury may be burdensome to the family, irritable, forgetful, impatient, and lethargic. The family may be well aware of the need for care for the depressive episode, but convincing the patient is not so easy.
While it is unquestionably important to anticipate depression after an injury, it may often be necessary to accept that the patient will deny, dismiss or even ridicule the need for care.
Pain treatment involves oral and injected medications and other procedures designed to minimize or eliminate pain. The will …
Proteo, Inc. / Proteo Biotech AG: FDA grants Proteo Orphan Drug Designation to Elafin for the treatm - AOL Finance
Proteo, Inc. / Proteo Biotech AG: FDA grants Proteo Orphan Drug Designation to Elafin for the treatm
Proteo, Inc. / Proteo Biotech AG: FDA grants Proteo Orphan Drug Designation to Elafin for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertensionIRVINE, Calif. & KIEL, Germany--(BUSINESS WIRE)-- Proteo, Inc. (OTCQB: PTEO) and its wholly-owned subsidiary Proteo Biotech AG announced today: The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) has granted orphan drug designation to Elafin for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension.Orphan Drug designation is granted by the FDA Office of Orphan Drug Products to novel drugs to treat a rare disease or condition affecting fewer than 200,000 persons in the United States. The designation provides the drug developer with a seven year term of market exclusivity upon final FDA approval. Moreover, this designation offers tax credits on certain development costs in the US and a waiver of the new drug application (NDA) user fee and opens the door to special funding opportunities, such as the US Orphan Products Grants Program.Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) is a life-threatening disease in which the pressure in a patient's pulmonary arteries becomes dangerously high. If untreated, patients have a 40% five-year survival. While the advent of new therapies has likely improved survival to approximately 60%, there remains no specific cure for the disease. Despite the treatment progress during the last two decades there is still an unmet medical need for additional treatments.Proteo's Elafin blocks the activity of enzymes that are involved in pulmonary arterial hypertension. This makes Elafin a highly promising compound for the treatment of the disease with a new mode of action. In preclinical studies at Stanford University, the treatment with Elafin attenuated fully developed PAH in an animal model with a pronounced and significant improvement of the vascular pathology, parameters of pulmonary hemodynamics, and right ventricular function. "In humans, the obliteration of distal pulmonary arteries leads to a severe increase in pulmonary artery pressure and subsequently to right ventricular dysfunction. Reversal of this obliteration is a key goal in the treatment of PAH. We therefore propose that Elafin treatment could be a promising option for PAH patients." said Marlene Rabinovitch, Director of Research, Vera Moulton Wall Center for Pulmonary Vascular at Stanford University School of Medicine.Birge Bargmann, CEO of Proteo: "We are very pleased that Marlene Rabinovitch, a leading specialist in the field of pulmonary arterial hypertension, and her team have supported this application. Elafin has now obtained orphan drug status for the treatment of PAH in the US and in the European Union which is an important milestone on the way towards the clinical development of Elafin in both regions".Further information on the clinical development program for ElafinProteo's pharmaceutical Elafin is a copy of a naturally occurring human anti-inflammatory substance. It is a natural antagonist of the tissue destroying enzymes (proteases) that participate in the inflammatory mechanism of many diseases. Elafin's ability to block the enzymes that cause these undesirable effects makes it a promising drug for the treatment of e.g. inflammatory lung diseases and severe reperfusion injury. The excellent tolerability of intravenously administered recombinant Elafin has already been demonstrated convincingly in a Phase I clinical trial. The outcome of a Phase II clinical trial on the treatment of postoperative inflammatory reactions in esophagus carcinoma show that intravenously administered Elafin has a very clear positive effect on the period of recovery: 63 percent of the Elafin treated patients required only one day of intensive care. All patients in the placebo group needed several days of postoperative intensive medical care. In addition, Proteo's licensing and development partner, Minapharm Pharmaceuticals SAE, has initiated a Phase II clinical trial on the use of Elafin for kidney transplantation patients. This trial is concerned with the prevention of acute organ rejection and chronic graft injury (allograft nephropathy). A further clinical trial - EMPIRE (Elafin Myocardial Protection from Ischaemia Reperfusion Injury), a placebo-controlled, double-blinded Phase-II study with 80 patients - has been started in the third quarter of 2011. The study is being performed under the supervision of the cardiologist Dr. Peter Henriksen at NHS Lothian's Edinburgh Heart Centre in association with The University of Edinburgh, one of the leading European universities in the area of cardiovascular research.About ProteoThe company researches, develops and markets compounds for biological and medical research as well as for use as pharmaceuticals. The main focus is on anti-inflammatory drugs, in particular on the human protease inhibitor Elafin. Proteo intends to out-license selected indications and to establish international strategic alliances in order to open up new fields of application and for marketing. (www.proteo.de).Forward-looking statements:Certain statements in this news release may contain forward-looking information within the meaning of Rule 175 under the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 3b-6 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, and are subject to the safe harbor created by those rules. All statements, other than statements of fact included in this release, including, without limitation, statements regarding potential future plans and objectives of the company, are forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. There can be no assurance that such statements will prove to be accurate and actual results and future events could differ materially from those anticipated in such statements. Technical complications that may arise could prevent the prompt implementation of any strategically significant plan(s) outlined above. The company cautions that these forward looking statements and risks and uncertainties involved are further qualified by other factors including, but not limited to those set forth in the company's Form 10-K filing and other filings with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any statements in this release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.Proteo Biotech AGBarbara Kahlke, Ph.D.Email: info@proteo.dePhone +49(0)431 8888462Fax: +49(0)431 8888463KEYWORDS: United States Europe North America California GermanyINDUSTRY KEYWORDS:
The article Proteo, Inc. / Proteo Biotech AG: FDA grants Proteo Orphan Drug Designation to Elafin for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension originally appeared on Fool.com.
Safety | York Building Services | New Jersey
Dedicated to Maintaining a SAFE and Hazard-Free Workplace.
We believe that proper safety training and risk management practices are crucial to effectively delivering our services, protecting our employees and limiting risk exposure for our clients.
Our written safety policy is communicated with employees upon orientation, reviewed quarterly and addresses accident prevention strategies, reporting procedures and hazardous material control among other policies. All staff receive orientation on fire safety and will be educated on site-specific fire exits and emergency procedures. Direct contact and emergency phone numbers are placed in all janitorial closets as part of our hazard communication program.
Safe Work Practices Are a Cornerstone Of Our Organization
Material Safety Data Sheets (MSDS) are readily available to our clients for all cleaning agents. Employees who handle chemicals are trained on the use and hazards of those chemicals. Accordingly, all cleaning agents will be used in a safe and proper manner and in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.
With all pertinent provisions of the federal OSHA Hazard Communication Standard and all comparable state requirements. An OSHA logbook is maintained at client sites to accurately record all incidents. Additionally, all dedicated on-site equipment is routinely inspected to ensure that defective equipment is duly replaced to prevent unsafe working conditions.
We Comply With Osha Requirements
To ensure a safe and secure working environment for its employees and our clients. This includes rewarding our employees for maintaining safe work places through recognition and incentives.
Our clients have also recognized York Building Services with safety awards for operating work sites without experiencing a safety incident, outage or regulatory violation. We take pride in the fact that our efforts ensure the safest possible operating environment for our associates and clients. Beginning with a commitment from senior management, safe work practices are a cornerstone of our organization.
Cleveland Clinic launches new biorepository | Healthcare Dive
Cleveland Clinic launches new biorepository
Cleveland Clinic, in collaboration with Brooks Automation, is launching a biorepository in Fairfax, Cleveland. The 21,000 square foot facility will house human tissue samples related to research into a range of conditions, including cancer, heart disease and epilepsy.
The aim is to increase the capacity of Cleveland Clinic's existing biobank, as well as speed research from bench to bedside through streamlined patient consent processes and centralized storage. The two-story building on the Cleveland Clinic campus should be complete around mid-2019.
Brooks Life Sciences, a division of Brooks Automation, will manage onsite operations, including storing and maintaining collections of biological material. Brooks will annotate each sample within the storage facility before moving it to the new repository.
Patient tissue samples taken before, during and after experimental treatment or standard of care tell researchers a lot about the natural history of disease and the impact of different drugs. This is particularly important for a better understanding of why some patients respond to a therapy and others don't, and could lead to better development of precision medicine.
According to a report from Technavio, the global biobanking market could be worth $6.9 billion by 2021, growing at a predicted CAGR of around 9%. This is driven by improvements in technology, an increasing demand for human tissue for biomarker and drug development research, and growing use of stem cells in regenerative medicine, targeted cell therapy, and pharmacological testing on cells and tissues.
"This new biorepository will be a critical resource for our scientists. The ability to properly manage biological specimens and to compare diseased tissues side-by-side with healthy tissues, is essential to understanding the biological basis of a disease," said Serpil Erzurum, chair of Cleveland Clinic Lerner Research Institute.
Earlier this month, the National Institutes of Health announced the beginning of enrollment of its All of Us Research Program. This will recruit a million or more people across the U.S. to create "the most diverse biomedical data resource of its kind."
This will collect data on the biological, environmental and behavioral factors that influence health and disease, from online surveys and from electronic health records (EHRs). The aim is to include people who are not traditionally involved in medical research.
Raquel Ballesteros - TLR - The Law Reviews
Raquel Ballesteros holds a degree in law obtained with special distinction from the University of León in 1992 and has a master's degree in health law from the Complutense University of Madrid. She is also a member of the Spanish Health Law Association. She has extensive knowledge of public law matters as a result of her preparation for joining the body of counsellors of the Spanish government. Raquel initiated her career as a lawyer in the private sector at Uría & Menendez in 1995. From 1997 to 2005 she worked in the litigation department of Cuatrecasas, one of the best-known and highest-ranked legal firms in the Spanish litigation arena, joining Bird & Bird in November 2005 as one of the founding lawyers of the firm in Spain. Since then, she has headed the public law practice of the Bird & Bird Madrid office.
Both in contentious and non-contentious matters, Raquel has extensively counselled clients on different regulatory topics concerning medicinal products and medical devices, such as clinical trials and post-authorisation studies, clinical and biomedical research, prices, telemedicine, biotechnology and bioethics, information and clinical data protection, distribution and tracking, labelling, advertising and promotion.
She lectures on the International Master of Health Law course organised by the European University of Madrid as well as on other courses and at conferences relating to her areas of interest. She collaborates regularly with newspapers (Expansión) and specialised legal magazines.
THe Benefits of CBD Oil for Anxiety The Honest Truth, CBD Origin - Tally Hockey Jerseys
Seems like over the decades a lot of these happen to be over medicating with pharmaceutical pills. CBD, or Cannabidiol oil is frequently among the greatest oils which work to deal with those signs of stress disorder. They've been doing so in search of aid. It's unknown entirely how CBD affects individuals who have depression and anxiety, but research are only beginning to emerge. Until recently using marijuana and CBD wasn't an alternative for military service members.
General research have suggested that CBD oil in some manner affects serotonin levels within the body. Because of policies of the VA, support members weren't permitted to use marijuana or hemp goods. Serotonin is obviously happening, though these organic compounds occasionally can become lowered because of environmental and physical elements.
Cannabidiol oil is derived in the hemp plant or some distinctive strain of marijuana that's low in THC and high in CBD. 1 research on mice suggested that CBD can help reduce FEAR MEMORY with a substantial amount. While this occurs, it may wreak havoc with psychological wellness. Thus reducing stress levels. Individuals with melancholy classically causes depression and anxiety, and consequently CBD oil should help. This effect helps explain why CBD helps patients suffering from PTSD symptoms.
Another manner by which CBD oil helps is by inducing restful sleep. Because reliving past events and the feelings that they cause is a key complication of this disease. Regrettably, having sleeplessness may exacerbate the symptoms of depression and anxiety. They operate in a symbiotic connection and strain that the sufferers of mental wellbeing, but frequently there's nothing that the victim can do about it besides changing their medication ingestion.
In the past couple of years of his lifetime, Pancake fought with his freedom. "He had the normal sort of disorders a great deal of older dogs get," his proprietor, Jesse Freidin, a nice art dog photographer, stated over the telephone. But for sleeplessness, various studies have proven that CBD oil might help our tremendously and THC can really impair sleep quality. Pancake, a 20-pound Boston terrier, began to lose his sight and could frequently look physically stiff — particularly after an increase, among his favourite pursuits.
Consequently, melancholy and anxiety sufferers who utilize CBD oil may handle two issues with a single benign solution. "The single thing the vets would say was, 'stop trekking — quit doing what that the dog loves to perform since it's reckless on his body,'" Freidin remembered. While seeking the ideal CBD oil for depression and anxiety, it's a good idea to contemplate what constitutes a fantastic CBD oil merchandise. I was't going to decrease his wellbeing so that he could live more.
Within a period of two to three weeks, start to lift your dose and be aware of how it influences you. Depending on the recommendation of a friend, Freidin began incorporating a CBD oil created especially for pets to Pancake's snacks or within his food about once per week, particularly after hikes along with other physical action. Only increase the dose gradually, otherwise, you might experience ill results.
As individuals are taking the cannabis effort to facilitate their anxieties, they're similarly turning into CBD to facilitate the woes of the fur babies. cbd oil for anxiety Stress and Depression are tough to live with but may be something of the past with the ideal care and therapy.
Director of health care quality, two dietitians join UTHSCT
Brenda Lee recently joined The University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler as the new director of health care quality.In addition, Jill Coble has been hired as the new inpatient dietitian, and Erin Langewisch has been employed as the new outpatient dietitian.Lee comes to UTHSCT from The University of Texas Medical Branch at Galveston, where she was director of accreditation.In that position, she conducted mock surveys and helped UTMB prepare for periodic inspections by The Joint Commission, which accredits U.S. hospitals.She also has served as director of quality resources at the Medical Center of the Rockies in Loveland, Colo.; vice president of compliance and performance improvement at Community Hospital in Grand Junction, Colo.; and regional director of performance improvement/accreditation at VHA Mountain States, a membership organization which works with medical professionals to improve the quality and control the costs of health care.Lee has a master's of science in nursing administration from Texas A&M University-Corpus Christi.She has a bachelor's of science in nursing from what was then Corpus Christi State University and now is the Corpus Christi campus of Texas A&M.Coble comes to UTHSCT after serving as an intern in nutrition therapy and food service for Reid Hospital and Health Care Services in Richmond, Ind.Coble, who is a registered and licensed dietitian, graduated from Texas State University in San Marcos with a bachelor's of science in nutrition and foods.Before joining UTHSCT, Langewisch worked as a certified diabetes educator with Innovex-Quintiles in Jacksonville, Ark.She provided physicians, nurses, and patients with training, clinical services, and education about diabetes drugs.Langewisch, who is a registered and licensed dietitian, was a diabetes educator and clinical dietitian with Service Professionals, Inc., at Rebsamen Medical Center in Jacksonville, Ark., for several years.She also has been an outpatient dietitian for the Medical Center of Plano in Plano, Texas.Langewisch has a bachelor's of science in dietetics from Kansas State University in Manhattan, Kan.For 60 years, The University of Texas Health Science Center at Tyler has provided excellent patient care and cutting-edge treatments, specializing in pulmonary disease, cancer, heart disease, primary care, and the disciplines that support them. With an operating budget of more than $125 million and biomedical research funding that exceeds $10 million annually, UTHSCT has a major economic impact on East Texas. Its two medical residency programs – in family medicine and occupational medicine – provide doctors for many communities in East Texas and beyond.
Four UCLA Health physicians elected to Associ | EurekAlert!
Honor extended to physicians with outstanding credentials in basic or translational biomedical research limited to 70 persons per year
Four UCLA physicians have been elected to the Association of American Physicians, an honor given to no more than 70 physicians per year. The UCLA physicians elected in 2022 are: neurologist Timothy F. Cloughesy, MD; infectious disease specialist Judith S. Currier, MD, MSc; cardiologist Kalyanam Shivkumar, MD, PhD; and primary care physician Carol M. Mangione, MD, MSc. The four new members bring the number of AAP members from UCLA and the David School of Medicine at UCLA to 38.
The Association of American Physicians (AAP) is an honorary medical society founded in 1885 by the Canadian physician Sir William Osler and six other distinguished physicians of his era for "the advancement of scientific and practical medicine." Election to the AAP is an honor extended to physicians with outstanding credentials in basic or translational biomedical research. The AAP includes about 1300 active members and 700 emeritus and honorary members. Members of the AAP have included Nobel laureates, and members of the United States National Academy of Sciences and the Institute of Medicine. Living members of the AAP who have also been awarded the Nobel Prize in Chemistry, Physiology or Medicine include Michael S. Brown, Joseph L. Goldstein, William G. Kaelin, Jr, Robert J. Lefkowitz, Barry J. Marshall, Stanley B. Prusiner, Peter Ratcliffe, and Gregg L. Semenza.
Here are details about the UCLA Health physician scientists newly-elected to the AAP.
TIMOTHY F. CLOUGHESY, MD Professor, Clinical Neurology, Step XI, Director, Neuro-Oncology Program, Co-Director of Brain Tumor Center UCLA Health, member of the UCLA Brain Research Institute and UCLA's Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center. Dr. Cloughesy is an innovator in treatment of brain tumors, working across basic and clinical domains to bring disease altering therapies into the clinic. He has led seminal clinical trials increasing patient survival and is the co-founder, developer and global PI for a revolutionary adaptive platform trial for cancer.
JUDITH S. CURRIER, MSc, MD Professor, Division of Infectious Diseases, Chief, Division of Infectious Diseases Director, Clinical AIDS Research and Education (CARE) Center, UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine. Dr. Currier's contributions have helped to improve the care for people with HIV. She played a leadership role in trials that defined when prophylaxis for opportunistic infections could be stopped, identified strategies to optimize antiretroviral therapy in adults and pregnant women and identified risks and interventions to reduce long- term complications of HIV.
CAROL M. MANGIONE, MD, MSc Chief, Division of General Medicine & Health Services Research Executive Vice Chair for Health Equity and Health Services Research Barbara A. Levey & Gerald S. Levey Distinguished Professor of Medicine and Public Health, UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine. Dr. Mangione is a pioneer in understanding how system-level interventions, benefit design, and cost sharing affect quality and outcomes for persons with diabetes. She has identified system and patient-level approaches that may mitigate health disparities for racial/ethnic minorities, older persons, and people with chronic diseases, or visual disability.
KALYANAM SHIVKUMAR, MD, PhD Professor, Director, UCLA Cardiac Arrhythmia Center & Electrophysiology Programs Director & Chief, UCLA Interventional CV Programs & Cardiac Catheterization Laboratories University of California, Los Angeles. Kalyanam Shivkumar is a physician scientist specializing in interventional cardiac electrophysiology. His research deals with fundamental aspects of cardiac neural control. He has pioneered the field of clinical neurocardiology and the translation of neuromodulation therapies to the clinical setting. He has also promoted the concept of the 'internet of the human body' to highlight key biological principles underlying control of all the organs by the nervous system.
"I am very pleased that these outstanding physician scientists have received this well-deserved honor," said Steven M. Dubinett, MD, interim dean at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA.
Frank Hillary, Ph.D. — Department of Psychology
You are here: Home / Directory / Frank Hillary, Ph.D.
Frank Hillary Ph.D.
313 Moore Building
Email: fgh3@psu.edu
Office Phone: (814) 865-5849
Ph. D., Drexel University, 2000
The research in our lab examines the effects of brain injury and disease on functional brain organization over the lifespan. One primary goal of our work is to understand how distributed neural networks are altered following significant neurological disruption (e.g., traumatic brain injury) and how distinct trajectories for network plasticity predict patient outcome. To do so we incorporate novel cognitive paradigms, structural and functional MRI, and network neuroscience approaches (e.g., graph theory) to understand how the brain adapts to significant neurological disruption. More recent collaborations also integrate studies in aging, mild cognitive impairment, and TBI as a risk for neurodegeneration later in life.
Hallquist, M. & ‡Hillary, F.G. (in press). Graph theory approaches to functional network organization in brain disorders: A critique for a brave new small-world. Network Neuroscience. See: https://www.biorxiv.org/content/early/2018/01/05/243741.article-metrics.
*Brenner, E., Hampstead, B.M., Grossner, E.C., Bernier, R.A., Gilbert, N., Sathian, K., ‡Hillary, F.G. (in press). Neural network dynamics in amnestic mild cognitive impairment. International Journal of Psychophysiology.
Rajagopalan, V., Das, A., Zhang, L., Hillary, F.G., Wylie, G.R., Yue, G. (in press). Fractal dimension brain morphometry: A novel approach to quantify white matter in Traumatic Brain Injury. Brain Imaging and Behavior.
Gilbert, N., *Bernier, R., Calhoun, V.D., Rajtmajer, S.M., ‡Hillary F.G. (2018). Diminished neural dynamics after Traumatic Brain Injury. PLOS ONE.
*Grossner, E., Bernier, R.A., Brenner, E.K., Chiou, K.S., ‡Hillary F.G., (2018). Prefrontal Gray Matter Volume Predicts Metacognitive Accuracy Following Traumatic Brain Injury. Neuropsychology.
*Roy, A., *Berner, R.A., Wang, J, *French, JJ, *Benson, M., ‡Hillary, F.G. (2017). The evolution of cost-efficiency in neural networks during recovery from traumatic brain injury. PLOS ONE. Apr 19;12(4):e0170541. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0170541. PMID: 28422992
Hillary FG, Grafman JH. (2017). Injured Brains and Adaptive Networks: The Benefits and Costs of Hyperconnectivity. Trends Cogn Sci. Cover of Issue May;21(5):385-401.
*Bernier, R., Roy, A.R., *Venkatesan, U., *Grossner, E., *Brenner, E., ‡Hillary, F.G. (2017). Dedifferentiation does not account for hyperconnectivity after traumatic brain injury. Frontiers in Neurology. 260867.
*Bernier, R. & ‡Hillary, F.G. (2016). Alcohol as a predictor of outcome in moderate and severe traumatic brain injury: 18 years of brain injury in Pennsylvania. Brain Injury. Feb 24:1-8.
*Roy, A., Campbell, C., *Bernier, R., ‡Hillary, F.G. (2016). An evolutionary computation based approach to examine functional plasticity between regional pairs in the brain. Frontiers in Neuroscience. Apr 5;10:146. doi: 10.3389/fnins.2016.00146.
Taber-Thomas, B., Pamplona-Morales, S., Hillary, F.G., Perez-Edgar, K. (2016). Altered topography of intrinsic functional connectivity in childhood risk for social anxiety. Depression and Anxiety.
Rajtmajer, S.M., *Roy, A., Albert, R.A., Molenaar, P.M., ‡Hillary, F.G. (2015). A voxelwise approach to determine consensus regions-of-interest for the study of brain network plasticity. Frontiers in Neuroanatomy. 28; 9:97. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2015.00097.
Hillary, F.G., *Roman, C., *Venkatesan, U., Rajtmajer, S.M., Bajo, R., Castellanos, N.D., (2015). Hyperconnectivity as a fundamental response to neurological disruption. Neuropsychology. PMID: 24933491.
*Ventkatesan, U., *Medaglia, J.D., & Hillary, F.G. (2015). Time post injury as a predictor of network change after TBI. Journal of Neurotrauma. PMID: 24955788.
Hillary, F.G., Rajtmajer, S., *Roman, C., *Medaglia, J.D., Calhoun, V.D. (2014). The rich get richer: traumatic brain injury elicits hyperconnectivity in core subnetworks. PLoS ONE, 6/14.
*Medaglia, J.D, *McAleavey, A., *Nostami, S., Hillary, F.G. (2014). Modeling distinct imaging hemodynamics early after TBI: the relationship between signal amplitude and connectivity. Brain Imaging and Behavior. PMID: 24906546
By visiting the LINE-X OUTAOUAIS website (linexgatineau.com), you are accepting and consenting to the practices described in this Privacy Policy and to our Terms and Conditions.
LINE-X OUTAOUAIS is committed to ensuring that the collection and processing of your data, carried out from the site linexgatineau.com, complies with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDR). Each form or teleservice limits the collection of personal data to what is strictly necessary (minimisation of data) and specifies:
who will have access to it (only LINE-X OUTAOUAIS unless specified in the form when transmission to a third party is necessary to manage your request),
The personal data collected as part of the services offered on linexgatineau.com are processed according to secure protocols and enable LINE-X OUTAOUAIS to handle requests received in its computer applications.
For any information or to exercise your rights concerning the processing of personal data managed by LINE-X OUTAOUAIS, you can contact LINE-X OUTAOUAIS and if appropriate its Data Protection Officer (DPO), if distinguished.
The entire content of this website (linexgatineau.com) is copyrighted under Canadian copyright law. You may print and download portions of material from the different areas of the Web Site solely for your own use. Any other copying, redistribution, retransmission or publication of any downloaded material, is strictly prohibited without the express written consent of the site owner.
