Home » Meal induced rectosigmoid tone modification: a low caloric meal accurately separates functional and organic gastrointestinal disease patients
di Stefano, M.; Miceli, E.; Missanelli, A.; Mazzocchi, S.; Corazza, G. R.
Gut;Oct2006, Vol. 55 Issue 10, p1409
Background and aims: Diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is based on arbitrary criteria due to the lack of an accurate diagnostic test. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether rectosigmoid tone modification after a meal represents an accurate diagnostic approach. Methods: In a secondary care setting, 32 constipation predominant and 24 diarrhoea predominant IBS patients, 10 functional diarrhoea and 10 functional constipation patients, 29 organic gastrointestinal disease patients, and 10 healthy volunteers underwent a rectal barostat test to measure fasting and postprandial rectosigmoid tone. Rectosigmoid response was assessed following three meals containing different amounts of calories: 200 kcal, 400 kcal and 1000 kcal. Results: After 200 kcal, healthy volunteers and patients with organic diseases showed a reduction in rectosigmoid volume of at least 28% of fasting volume, indicating a meal induced increase in muscle tone. In contrast, patients with diarrhoea predominant IBS showed dilation of the rectosigmoid colon, indicative of reduced tone, and patients with constipation predominant IBS showed a mild volume reduction or no modification. Functional diarrhoea and constipation patients showed rectosigmoid tone modification resembling that of the corresponding IBS subtype. A 400 kcal meal normalised rectosigmoid tone in more than half of the constipation predominant IBS patients but none of the diarrhoea predominant IBS patients. In contrast, a 1000 kcal meal normalised tone response in all IBS patients. Sensitivity of the test was 100%, specificity 93%, positive predictive value 96%, and negative predictive value 100%. Conclusion: A postprandial reduction in rectosigmoid tone of at least 28% of fasting value after a low caloric meal accurately separates organic and functional gastrointestinal disease patients. This parameter may therefore be used in the positive diagnosis of IBS.
Related ArticlesFunctional Bowel Disorders in Iranian Population using Rome III Criteria. Sorouri, Majid; Pourhoseingholi, Mohammad A.; Vahedi, Mohsen; Safaee, Azadeh; Moghimi-Dehkordi, Bijan; Pourhoseingholi, Asma; Habibi, Manijeh; Zali, Mohammad R. // Saudi Journal of Gastroenterology;Jul2010, Vol. 16 Issue 3, p154 Background/Aim: To study the prevalence and risk factors of functional bowel disorders (FBD) in Iranian community using Rome III criteria. Materials and Methods: This study was a cross-sectional household survey conducted from May 2006 to December 2007 in Tehran province, Iran, including 18,180...Safer alternatives to Zelnorm. // Consumer Reports;Sep2004, Vol. 69 Issue 9, p47 Reports on alternatives to taking tegaserod maleate (Zelnorm), a drug approved for short-term relief of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) with constipation. Details of safety concerns surrounding the drug for some users; Questions of the drug's effectiveness; Significance of dietary changes to...Symptom Differences in Moderate to Severe IBS Patients Based on Predominant Bowel Habit. Schmulson, Max; Oh-Young Lee; Lin Chang; Naliboff, Bruce; Mayer, Emeran A. // American Journal of Gastroenterology;Oct1999, Vol. 94 Issue 10, p2929 OBJECTIVE: We sought to determine if irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) patients with different bowel habit predominance differ in self-reported viscerosensory symptoms related to the upper and lower gastrointestinal (GI) tract, somatosensory symptoms, and constitutional functions. METHODS: Six...Irritable Bowel Syndrome – A Review Article. Lescheid, David W. // Indian Journal of Dental Sciences;Jun2015, Vol. 7 Issue 2, Special section p4 The article focuses on irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) which is among functional bowel disorders including functional abdominal bloating, constipation, and diarrhea. Topics discussed the symptoms, characteristics and diagnosis of IBS, the coexistence of IBS with other functional gastrointestinal...The Irritable Bowel Syndrome. Zammit, Edward // Malta Medical Journal;Jun2009, Vol. 21 Issue 2, p34 The article offers information on the diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), a gastrointestinal disorder associated with abdominal pain, diarrhea, and altered bowel movements. Although IBS poses a negative impact in the quality of life and social functioning of patients, it is inferred...A Dose-Ranging, Phase II Study of the Efficacy and Safety of Alosetron in Men with Diarrhea-Predominant IBS. Chang, Lin; Ameen, Vanessa Z.; Dukes, George E.; McSorley, David J.; Carter, Eric G.; Mayer, Emeran A. // American Journal of Gastroenterology;Jan2005, Vol. 100 Issue 1, p115 BACKGROUND: A randomized, double blind, placebo-controlled dose-ranging study was conducted to assess the efficacy of alosetron in men with diarrhea-predominant irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).METHODS: Six hundred and sixty-two men were randomized to treatment with alosetron 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 4.0...Irritable bowel syndrome support. Watson, Brenda // Alive: Canada's Natural Health & Wellness Magazine;Dec2005, Issue 278, p44 The article presents remedial measures for Irritable bowel syndrome(IBS). It informs that the IBS sufferers faces abdominal pain and altered bowel function such as constipation and diarrhea. In worse cases some people suffer from bouts of constipation and diarrhea. It mentions that a causative...Abdominal pain and functional gastrointestinal disorders. Guthrie, Elspeth; Thompson, David // BMJ: British Medical Journal (International Edition);9/28/2002, Vol. 325 Issue 7366, p701 Discusses the overlap of functional disorders that deal with gastrointestinal pain syndromes. Controversy about the classification system for functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID); Prevalence of irritable bowel syndrome; Involvement of psychological and physiological factors; Aim of drug...Prevalence of Gastrointestinal Symptoms in a Multiracial Asian Population, With Particular Reference to Reflux-Type Symptoms. Khek Yu Ho; Jin Yong Kang; Adeline Seow // American Journal of Gastroenterology;Oct1998, Vol. 93 Issue 10, p1816 Objective: Data on the epidemiology of chronic gastrointestinal symptoms in the East are limited. The aims of this study were to estimate the prevalence of chronic gastrointestinal symptoms in Singapore and to determine whether ethnic differences in the prevalence of these symptoms exist....
Medical Doctor in Passaic | Passaic Medical & Wellness
August 20, 2018 Doctors in Passaic / Physical Exams
Physical Exams in Passaic
Whether you are sick or just need to find a general practitioner for a physical exam, at Passaic Medical and Wellness you will find the medical doctor in Passaic who fits the bill. Our staff is made of experienced doctors, clinicians, nurse practitioners, and skilled medical technicians. We treat a wide variety of medical conditions including general well visits, physical exams, trauma and emergency care, common illnesses, allergies, flu vaccines, and provide care to adults and children over 10 years of age. We are also pleased to provide cosmetic procedures like Botox®.
The medical doctor in Passaic is ready to provide physical examinations for a wide variety of reasons. Our doctors can offer annual physical exams, Dept. of Transportation medical certification exams, employer drug testing, employment pre-employment testing, executive physicals, insurance physicals, routine physical exams, and school and sports physicals. In addition to our comprehensive exams, we provide emergency services and can treat a full spectrum of conditions and illnesses. Our services include diagnostic testing, cosmetic options, preventive care, and vaccinations. The medical director of PMW is Dr. Alexander Swan, MD, who is a Board certified nephrologist with over fifteen years of experience. Our internist is Dr. Leticia Decastro who has been in practice for over 25 years. Shefali Kumar, MSN, has over 18 years of experience. So we offer a wide variety of medical and wellness services with a lot of years between us.
If you or someone in your family is looking for a medical doctor in Passaic, your search has ended. At Passaic Medical and Wellness, you will find talented and well-respected practitioners who practice compassionate care. It is a walk-in clinic, so appointments aren't necessary, especially in emergency situations. If you have a medical emergency that isn't life threatening, come in and see us. We will do everything we can to treat your emergency with urgency. But if you want to develop a rapport with an internist, PMW has exactly what you need, when you need it. For a general physical exam or to treat a specific condition, come in for an appointment today.
Lemongrass Helps Lower Blood Pressure
https://www.foodsforbetterhealth.com/lemongrass-for-high-blood-pressure-34410 Is Lemongrass Good for High Blood Pressure? Farah Shaikh Foods 4 Better Health 2017-05-10T04:49:25Z 2017-08-31 10:23:16 Blood Pressure,Food Facts https://www.foodsforbetterhealth.com/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/Lemongrass-For-High-Blood-Pressure-1-150x100.png
Home > Health Conditions > Blood Pressure > Is Lemongrass Good for High Blood Pressure?
Lemongrass is botanically known as Cymbopogon citratus. It grows well in warm and tropical regions, and is widely used in Asian cuisine due to its flavor and citrus-like smell. But, lemongrass also has medicinal properties, and when taken with tea, it can reduce cold and cough symptoms, as well as help control high blood pressure. But how effective is lemongrass for high blood pressure? Let's take a closer look.
How to Use Lemongrass for High Blood Pressure?
Lemongrass contains antioxidants, phenolic compounds, and flavonoids. It also contains anti-cholesterol and anti-atherosclerosis properties, which reduce the absorption of cholesterol in the intestine, keeping bad cholesterol at bay. Lemongrass helps in the oxidation of LDL cholesterol in the blood and prevents atherosclerotic plaque buildup.
Lemongrass has good amounts of vitamins A and C, as well as zinc. It also has magnesium, potassium, phosphorus, calcium, and iron. The potassium content, in particular, helps regulate blood pressure.
Drinking a glass of lemongrass juice in the morning helps lower high blood pressure and boost blood circulation in the body. It also helps to get rid of uric acid, harmful toxins, and fats, as it works as a diuretic to cleanse and detoxify the body. It increases the frequency and quantity of urination, which helps to flush out bad cholesterol and other toxins.
To use lemongrass for high blood pressure, simply steep dried or fresh lemongrass in a cup of hot water for five to 10 minutes, then strain and add a sweetener. You can also use ready-to-use lemongrass tea bags. Or, you can simply add lemongrass to soups to reap its health benefits.
Related: More Health Benefits of Lemongrass
Research Findings on Lemongrass
Here are a few case studies which show how lemongrass helps in high blood pressure.
A study published in Lipids and conducted at the Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Wisconsin showed that consuming 140-milligram capsules of lemongrass oil daily lowered cholesterol levels and blood fats. It lowered cholesterol levels from 310 to 294 on an average.
Be sure to consult your doctor before taking lemongrass supplements to reduce high blood pressure. Using lemongrass for blood pressure is effective, but you shouldn't consume it in excess. A few studies have shown that excessive consumption of lemongrass has some side effects.
An animal study conducted on rats and published in the Asian Pacific Journal of Tropical Medicine states that lemongrass oil has anti-hyperlipidemic properties. It helps maintain normal cholesterol and triglycerides serum levels.
Lemongrass prevents the accumulation and blockage of lipids in the blood vessels. It also promotes the smooth and unobstructed flow of blood, which prevents cardiac disorders like atherosclerosis.
A thesis presented to the Nursing Faculty of San Pedro College showed that patients who took lemongrass tea for two weeks had decreased blood pressure. The participants were given 180 milliliters of lemongrass tea every morning after breakfast. The mean pre-blood pressure reading was 153/0 mmHg, and the mean post-blood pressure reading was 141/82 mmHg, both above normal.
A study conducted by the Pharmacy Department at the University of Malakand and published in Medical Forum Monthly states that excessive intake of lemongrass decreases systolic blood pressure, and slightly increases diastolic blood pressure.
Lemongrass is a powerful antioxidant which keeps liver and pancreas healthy. It also keeps the cholesterol levels normal.
There are many other foods that can help maintain your blood pressure in addition to lemongrass. You can easily incorporate these foods into your balanced diet as snacks.
Grapes contain a chemical called resveratrol which helps lower blood pressure.
Flaxseeds have high amounts of omega-3 fatty acids which help prevent cardiovascular diseases. Consuming flaxseed or flaxseed oil helps lower blood pressure in people with hypertension.
Sunflower seeds are a good source of vitamins E and K. Regular consumption of these seeds also help lower blood pressure.
Related: More Foods That Can Lower Blood Pressure
Lemongrass has ample health benefits, and all you need is one cup of lemongrass tea in the morning to help you stay fresh and free of toxins. However, anything in excess is harmful, and lemongrass is no exception.
If you are hypertensive and on medication, use lemongrass with caution as it may lower your blood pressure more than required. Be sure to consult your doctor if you want to make it a part of your daily diet.
Avoid lemongrass if you are pregnant. Lemongrass is known to trigger menstruation, so it may result in miscarriage if consumed during pregnancy.
Other Ways to Maintain Normal Blood Pressure
Certain lifestyle changes are essential to maintaining a healthy blood pressure. You should avoid consuming high amounts of sodium, saturated fats, red meats, and sweets.
In addition to consuming lemongrass for high blood pressure, you should also increase the intake of fresh fruits and green leafy vegetables, dairy, whole grain foods, fish, nuts, and poultry. Also, regular exercise will help you stay fit, and help control your blood pressure.
Matela, E., "EFFECTIVENESS OF LEMONGRASS TEA IN LOWERING BLOOD PRESSURE," Prezi, February 2, 2014;
https://prezi.com/jp3ie78t4utp/effectiveness-of-lemongrass-tea-in-lowering-blood-pressure/.
"Lemongrass," WebMD; http://www.webmd.com/vitamins-supplements/ingredientmono-719-lemongrass.aspx?activeingredientid=719&activeingredientname=lemongrass, last accessed May 10, 2017.
Depression, Manic, Bipolar and Depressive Therapy 07607, Maywood, NJ. All Listings
Depression can come from feelings of loss and isolation, loneliness and fear of being alone. Depression can also come from feeling just plain lousy about yourself! What we therapist call "low self esteem" which is another way of saying you don't love yourself very much. Something we all need to do and feel. Getting at the roots of your depression thorough various therapeutic approaches I am trained to use can be the answer for you. I can help you to pull yourself up by your bootstraps and see a better day. Whether your depression is a new and sudden feeling of sadness or has been with you as a life long struggle. Now may be the time to heal. Sheila Kaminski, MSW,LCSW Licensed Clinical Social Worker
Dr. Vaughan has successfully worked with patients suffering from depression for fifteen years. Depression can lead to low self-esteem, low energy, reduced concentration and motivation, suicidal thoughts, irrational guilt, and unwanted changes in sleep and appetite. Therapy helps clients cope with and minimize symptoms. Clients will gain clarity about the root causes of depression and find new perspectives and behaviors that assist them in arriving at a more adaptive and fulfilling way of life. Lauren Levy, LCSW Licensed Clinical Social Worker
I work with the symptoms of depression using Gestalt approach, REBT, CBT and more- chosen individually depending on your specific needs and personality. If needed I can take you through skills building Wellness program consisting of 8-12 weeks to add more tools for your " tool box" assisting you to deal with your depression faster and more effectively. If you want fast results- let's try to work on this together! Gaetano Salvadore, CHLC, CSPC Certified Life Coach, Hypnotist and Mentor
Fair LawnWyckoffRidgewoodWestwoodOld TappanRamseyParamusMidland ParkEnglewoodTeaneckAlpineOld TappanRiver EdgeWoodcliff LakeFranklin Lakes
DAB — DAB will be attending the BIO World Congress 2019
Events | Apr 2019
DAB will be attending the BIO World Congress 2019
From July 8th till 11th, 2019 DAB will be attending the BIO World Congress on Industrial Biotechnology and Ag Tech, taking place in Iowa USA.
The BIO World Congress provides an opportunity learn about the latest innovations in industrial biotechnology and an opportunity to interact with our current and future clients. The conference is the world largest industrial biotechnology event, and will outline the trends in the sector surrounding synthetic biology and genetic editing, advanced biofuels, biobased materials, renewable chemicals, flavors, fragrances and food ingredients, Ag tech and biomass supply.
One of the core production processes used in industrial biotechnology is fermentation. DAB has developed a robust, patented, bioreactor technology that overcomes many of the pitfalls of industrial fermentation through the combination of fermentation and separation into a single vessel, enabling in-situ product recovery without any moving parts or membranes.
DAB will be based in the Holland Biotech Pavilion and will be meeting with current and future partners utilizing our technology to accelerate their fermentation process.
If you are interested in hearing more about DABs technology and how we could help accelerate your fermentation, either reach out to one of our team below or via the BIO World Congress partnering tool – BIO One-on-One PartneringTM System.
James Woolner – Business Development – woolner@dab.bio
More information on the BIO World Congress can be found here – Link: https://www.bio.org/events/bio-world-congress/IOWA19
“Lack of sleep weakens the immune system,” says Lt Col Dara Regn, MD, pulmonary and sleep medicine chief of the Air Force Research Laboratory’s 711th Human Performance Wing. “Lack of sleep can decrease the body’s immune defenses, increasing the chances of us getting sick. Lack of sleep can also negatively impact our body’s ability to fight off infection if we do get sick and may reduce vaccine effectiveness.”
As Roberts explains, fatigue impacts Airmen performance, and makes it harder to fix errors should they happen.
Home » Topics » Cholesterol » Research » Uptake of HDL-cholesterol contributes to lipid accumulation in clear cell renal cell carcinoma.
Summary of "Uptake of HDL-cholesterol contributes to lipid accumulation in clear cell renal cell carcinoma."
Pages: 158525
PubMed Source: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/31513923
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.bbalip.2019.158525
PubMed Articles [28171 Associated PubMed Articles listed on BioPortfolio]
68Ga-DOTATATE Uptake in Pancreatic Metastasis of Renal Cell Carcinoma Mimicking Pancreatic Neuroendocrine Tumor.
A 61-year-old man, with a history of prior clear cell renal cell carcinoma in remission, was referred to Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT for the further evaluation of pancreatic tail mass. Ga-DOTATATE PET/CT showe...
Apolipoprotein L1 (APOL1) genetic variants G1 and G2, compared to the common allele G0, are major risk factors for non-diabetic kidney disease in African descent populations. APOL1 is a minor protein ...
Question: what is the environmental effect of the spike protein? - PermEco Inc.
by Zaia Kendall · 31/01/2022
With so much mis- and disinformation out there, it is hard to decipher what is true and what isn't. I am not making any claims in this article, I am only stating my observations and asking a question I have not yet heard anyone ask: could the spike protein affect the environment?
The reason I am asking this question is because I have noticed and have been told of people suffering from bizarre symptoms after being in contact with vaccinated people. There seems to be some kind of transmission going on. Also, in the opinion of several scientists, animals can be infected with Covid, and we have seen news of tigers, dogs and cats apparently getting Covid. There is now talk of injecting animals with the messenger RNA injections.
We are also able to identify Covid in sewerage, which may indicate that the spike protein is excreted.
If it were just the natural spike proteins occurring from infection with Covid, I believe nature can cope with that, as it can with most things. The actual amount of spike protein in the body as part of the virus itself is not that high. However, the injections now given against the virus are stimulating cells to manufacture spike proteins. Billions of messenger RNA is sent into the body and telling the body to make billions of spike protein. These can then be excreted through the breath, droplets (coughing, sneezing), sweat, urine and stool. Billions of people are now spike protein factories.
Nature is able to deal with a lot. But it does suffer if there is pollution. Pollution is too much of one particular thing which nature cannot deal with (for example all those surgical masks that are ending up in the ocean now).
Never before has nature had to deal with billions of creatures each manufacturing billions of a specific, potentially lethal protein. And most of these proteins will end up in the oceans, forests, other animals, insects, fish, trees, plants, flowers… how will nature cope with this? This is an experiment that does not just affect people, this is an experiment that will affect the whole planet for years to come. Nobody knows how this will affect our natural environment. What if this protein does not only affect domesticated animals, what if it affects essential soil life? What if it affects our bees or other pollinators? As humans we are so convinced of our own righteousness and superiority, but honestly, nobody has any idea about what this protein will affect. We are living in the greatest experiment of all time, and it could cost us everything.
Personally I believe research is needed on what else the spike protein will affect. We need to know whether this human experiment will affect our natural environment and whether we are able to stop this protein from entering our natural environment and our food chain. Because if we can't, we may have just made the biggest mistake in human history. A mistake which could not only wipe out mankind, but all life on the entire planet.
Information to look at:
Pfizer study: "A PHASE 1/2/3, PLACEBO-CONTROLLED, RANDOMIZED, OBSERVER-BLIND, DOSE-FINDING STUDY TO EVALUATE THE SAFETY, TOLERABILITY, IMMUNOGENICITY, AND EFFICACY OF SARS-COV-2 RNA VACCINE CANDIDATES AGAINST COVID-19 IN HEALTHY INDIVIDUALS"
Note page 67, "Exposure during pregnancy" – "Environmental Exposure"
https://cdn.pfizer.com/pfizercom/202011/C4591001_Clinical_Protocol_Nov2020.pdf
Peer reviewed medical article, "Reverse-transcribed SARS-CoV-2 RNA can integrate into the genome of cultured human cells and can be expressed in patient-derived tissues"
Tags: environmentfood for thoughtSpike protein
Lory Keller says:
Gratitude for your insight, Zaia. What you say is very much what I've been thinking/feeling. I appreciate your comment about the righteousness of humanity. I'd like to add my incredulity with the righteousness of those who believe in and trust their government to 'care' for them – but never say a word about our environment. Boggles my mind, so many humans falling in lockstep and questioning nothing. Thank you for sharing and caring. I hope all is well with you, Tom and your loved ones.
02/02/2022 at 4:37 pm
Thanks Lory! I have added some links which show concern from Pfizer for secondary (or environmental) infection by third parties, and a peer reviewed study showing possible integration with DNA.
Density of Calcium Release Units Decreased & Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis & Spine Stiffness: Causes & Reasons - Symptoma
Density of Calcium Release Units Decreased, Diffuse Idiopathic Skeletal Hyperostosis, Spine Stiffness,
Stiffness of the cervical spine, atlanto-occipital, temporomandibular and cricoarytenoid joints may cause difficult intubation (1). [ncbi.nlm.nih.gov]
They can cause problems if they: rub against other bone or tissue restrict movement squeeze nearby nerves For example, osteophytes in the: spine can cause pain and stiffness [nhs.uk]
[…] and in the lumbar spine pronounced but asymmetrical inter vertebral spur formation and bridging) Not an inflammatory disease and spinal pain and stiffness seldom severe. [flinders.edu.au]
Detaching the insertion of the semispinalis muscle from the C2 spinous process seldom becomes problematic, because OPLL patients usually have a stiff spine due to ossification [musculoskeletalkey.com]
Six years before he developed skeletal stiffness. By 70 years he became dependent for ambulation and many other self-care activities. [fluoridealert.org]
[…] usually of the shoulder region Pott's disease – tuberculosis of the upper spine Reactive arthritis/Reiter's syndrome – inflammatory arthritis indirectly caused by some bacterial [news-medical.net]
In some people the disease may be severe and affect many joints, including the spine. Symptoms in the spine include stiffness and pain. [nlm.nih.gov]
Often, this flattening and additional stiffness to the spine is not at all painful. [moveforwardpt.com]
• Pressure over sacrum, spinal concussion and pain in coccyx radiating up the spine. • Stiff neck, pain between shoulders which may or may not be associated with vertigo [proz.com]
Bone spurs: As a person ages, the disks in their spine start to lose height and begin to bulge. They also lose water content, dry out and become stiff. [verywellhealth.com]
Sometimes the ligaments which hold the spine together may also become tough, leading to stiff movements of the spine. [youtube.com]
If three or more levels are fused, the patient has to understand that fusion and pain relief is being traded for spine stiffness and the post-operative restrictions are more [neckandback.com]
Immediately after an accident, emergency responders immobilize the spine using a stiff neck collar and carrying board in order to transport the patient. [livescience.com]
[…] involvement (with large anterior osteophytes) pain and stiffness dysphagia stridor hoarseness sleep apnea Physical exam decreased ROM of the spine neurologic symptoms of [orthobullets.com]
Caddo County, Louisiana Women's Fitness Classes and Weight Loss Programs
If you are a woman looking for the best possible solution to weight loss and a firm, fit body, check out your local Caddo County, LA women's fitness classes offered by Adventure Boot Camp.
Get Active and Fun With Fitness Classes in Caddo County Louisiana
Some of the benefits of fitness and exercise classes in Caddo County Louisiana include:
2. Caddo County Louisiana Weight Loss. No matter what type of fitness class you attend, you'll burn calories while you exercise. Burning more calories than you consume every day allows you to burn fat and ultimately lose weight.
4. Better Health in Caddo County Louisiana. Studies have found that regular exercise can greatly reduce your risk of developing many serious medical problems. Fitness classes can make you less likely to suffer from high blood pressure, type 2 diabetes and heart disease.
