Diabetes Mellitus | Neffsville Veterinary Clinic
Alexzis Beard, CVT
Today, it isn't uncommon to know someone who has diabetes; but similar to humans, cats and dogs can also be diagnosed with this disease. Did you know that Diabetes Mellitus occurs in female dogs twice as often as males and most dogs are diagnosed between the ages of 7-10 years, whereas most cats are typically diagnosed around the age of 6 years and older?
So, what is Diabetes Mellitus exactly?
Diabetes is an endocrine disease in which the body can't use simple sugars (known as glucose) to produce usable energy for the body. This could be due to the lack of insulin being produced (Type I) or insulin resistance (Type II). Insulin controls the level of glucose in the body by transferring the sugar from the bloodstream to the cells. The cell then utilizes the sugar for energy. When there isn't enough insulin being produced, or the body is unable to use the insulin, glucose begins to accumulate in the bloodstream in excess quantities causing hyperglycemia (high blood sugar). The sugars bind with water molecules which are then excreted in the urine causing the common signs of polyuria (increased urination) and subsequent polydipsia (increased thirst). As mentioned before, glucose is the body's main energy source. When the body is unable to move the glucose into the cells for energy, the body essentially starves. If this starvation of energy is left untreated, the body breaks down its own fat and muscle tissue causing weight loss, which is also known as metabolic starvation.
Apart from breed disposition, common risk factors for diabetes include obesity, hyperadrenocorticism (Cushing's Disease), hyperthyroidism, pancreatitis, heart disease, kidney disease, urinary tract infections, skin infections and long-term use of corticosteroids (such as prednisone). Common signs include increased thirst (polydipsia), increased urination (polyuria), and weight loss despite a ravenous appetite. Progression of an untreated diabetic will develop decreased or loss of appetite, cloudy eyes and, chronic or recurring infections. If left untreated, this disease is life threatening.
The good news is diabetes is a treatable disease! However, it requires more regular examinations for your pet by your family veterinarian. To ensure that your furry companion is staying healthy, they will need more frequent blood and urine tests to closely monitor their diabetes. Treatment includes regular insulin injections, blood sugar testing and close monitoring of your pet's urination, drinking, appetite, and weight habits. In addition to those treatment options listed, a special formulated diabetic diet may be added in with your pet to aid in the management of their diabetes. Despite being a fairly simple disease to understand, each pet is different and has variables that can make management complex. Working closely with your veterinarian is the key to obtaining the best control of diabetes in your pet.
THURSDAY, June 23, 2022 (HealthDay News) – Health authorities in Britain, who routinely test sewage samples for the virus that causes polio, declared a "national incident" after evidence of local spread was found in London sewers.
No cases have been identified yet, according to the UK Health Security Agency.
There is little risk to the public, British health officials stressed, but those who are not fully vaccinated against poliovirus are urged to get their shots. This is especially important for young children.
“Most of the U.K. population will be protected from vaccination in childhood, but in some communities with low vaccine coverage, individuals may remain at risk,” Dr. Vanessa Saliba, a consultant epidemiologist for the U.K. Health Security Agency, said in an agency statement.
A genetic analysis of the samples point to a common origin. It is likely a person who traveled to the United Kingdom around the new year, Dr. Shahin Huseynov, technical officer for the World Health Organization’s vaccine-preventable diseases and immunization program in Europe, told The New York Times.
The most recent four samples collected could have been in young children introduced to the virus by this person or one another.
It is also possible that all the samples are from a single immunocompromised person who has shed the virus for months, the agency added.
“The big issue here is whether it’s been continuously circulating in the U.K. or whether it’s an immunodeficient person,” Dr. Walter Orenstein, associate director of the Emory Vaccine Center and a former director of the United States’ Immunization Program, told the Times.
“They need to find that immunodeficient person” if that’s the case, Orenstein added.
That may not be an easy job.
The wastewater treatment plant from which the samples were taken covers about 4 million people, the Times said. Sample collection continues to try to identify the source.
It is typical for the sewage surveillance to pick up one or two cases of polio each year. The last confirmed polio case in Britain was in 1984. The country was declared polio-free in 2003.
When someone is infected, the virus lives in the gut and emerges in feces. It is spread most often when an infected person touches food or water meant for someone else without washing their hands.
Poliovirus can infect the spine and cause paralysis, which happens in about 1% of patients.
“Most of the disease is asymptomatic, it is only about one in 500 children who are actually paralyzed,” Dr. David Heymann, an infectious disease expert at London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, told the Times. He previously led the World Health Organization’s polio eradication program.
Wild polio now only exists in Afghanistan and Pakistan, but a “live” oral vaccine is used in some parts of the world and can briefly be shed in the feces of a person who is immunized.
Health officials think that's what happened here because the virus in the samples matched a type of oral polio vaccine used to contain outbreaks, Huseynov said. That vaccine was used in Afghanistan, Pakistan and some Middle Eastern and African countries in recent months.
“Polio persists in some of the poorest parts o the world. Until it is eradicated worldwide, the risk of importation and spread in the U.K. and elsewhere will continue,” Nicholas Grassly, a vaccine epidemiologist at Imperial College London, told the Times.
Britain uses an injected inactivated poliovirus for vaccination. It can’t be shed through feces. London has about an 86.6% polio vaccination rate, according to the Global Polio Eradication Initiative.
More information
The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has more on polio.
SOURCE: The New York Times
Copyright ©2022 HealthDay. All rights reserved.
Contact Our Health Professionals
Find A Doctor Pay My Bill Patient Portal
Follow Us
Related Services
Specialties
Infectious Disease
Services
Infectious Disease Services
Related Items
Patient Education
Cancer: Preventing Infections
Central Line Infections
View All 7
Diseases and Conditions
Infections
mRNA COVID-19 Vaccine
View All 4
Pediatric Diseases and Conditions
Gynecological Infections
Infection in Babies
View All 5
Tests and Procedures
White Blood Cell Count
News
¿La estación lo tiene triste? Hay formas de aliviar la depresión invernal
‘Deltacron’ Variant Rare and Not a Major Concern
View All 1985
Interactive Tools
Immunization Quiz
Vaccine Quiz
Videos
How Does a COVID-19 mRNA Vaccine Work?
ShareWIK Videos
My Baby Has Cancer
Pediatric Cancer: A Family's Journey
View All 6
The health content and information on this site is made possible through the generous support of the Haspel Education Fund.
Copyright © The StayWell Company, LLC. except where otherwise noted.
StayWell Disclaimer
504.702.3000
2000 Canal Street
New Orleans, LA 70112
Get Directions Site Map
Copyright © Disclaimer
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Linkedin
Pinterest
Instagram
Patient Portal
Pay my Bill
Find a Provider
Services & Programs
Patients & Visitors
Health Library
Academic Medical Center
For Staff
Physicians & Staff
Careers
Contact Us
Living Well Blog
Notice of Privacy Practices
x
⚠
Your browser is out of date. To get the full experience of this website, please update to most recent version.
Dr. Luncheon undergoes emergency procedure – 24th Dec – Capitol News
You Are Here: Home » Top Stories » Dr. Luncheon undergoes emergency procedure – 24th Dec
Dr. Luncheon undergoes emergency procedure – 24th Dec
Cabinet Secretary Dr. Roger Luncheon is resting at home this evening after being discharged from the Caribbean Heart Institute. Dr Luncheon was transferred to the CHI from the Georgetown Hospital over the weekend to have an emergency procedure to implant a device into his body to track and dissolve blood clots. That move came after a blood clot was discovered in his lungs.
He was rushed to the hospital late last week complaining of pains and difficulty breathing. The procedure went well and Dr. Luncheon is said to be upbeat about his health. He also underwent a number of medical examinations.
Medical sources say there is some concern about his health and the amount of activities he is involved in, he could be asked to scale down on some of those work related activities. Dr. Roger Luncheon serves on a number of Government boards and overlooks the operations of the Presidential Complex while serving as the secretary to the Cabinet and one of the President's closest advisors.
26 Mental Health Jobs in Sherborne | Adzuna
Mental Health Jobs in Sherborne
Average Salary: £32,002
health and caresupport workercare assistanthousingelderly caremore ❯
£36000 - £37000 PER ANNUM + £1500 WELCOME BONUS -
... Manager on day shifts and lead the team on a 10 bedded specialist nursing unit. The service provides complex nursing care to 30 adults living with mental health conditions and neuro ... disabilities. We are looking for a Senior Nurse (RGN, RMN, RNLD) with at least 2 years experience working with mental health clients. You will lead on your allocated unit, ensuring ... More details ❯
... Exemplar Health Care made first place in the "Tomorrow's Care" awards 2021 for our commitment to supporting colleagues , mental health and wellbeing so be assured you are joining ... (including two specialist bariatric bedroom suites). With expertise across a range of neuro-disabilities, mental ill-health, brain injury, stroke and early-onset dementia, at Lakeview ... More details ❯
JOBSWORTH: £ 26,609 P.A.
... dementia, mental health needs and neuro disabilities. The service is split up over 3 floors, each specializing in different support and nursing needs. As the Registered Home Manager you ... More details ❯
£32,002 per annum
Average salary for Mental Health Jobs in Sherborne.
£38500 - £40000 PER ANNUM -
... to complex care needs, including but not limited to: Neuro-disability, Brain injury & stroke, Mental ill-health, Physical disability & Huntington's Disease. The Clinical Nurse Manager plays ... More details ❯
£32000 - £37000 PER ANNUM + £1500 WELCOME BONUS -
... with adults with complex needs, including a range of neuro-disabilities, mental ill-health, brain injury, stroke and early-onset dementia. Annual salary upto £36966 £1500 welcome bonus Here ... More details ❯
Jobs ❯ South West England ❯ Sherborne ❯ Social work Jobs in Sherborne ❯ Mental Health Jobs in Sherborne
Vaccines for Kids Under 5 Might Be Approved at End of February 2022
Protection for our youngest kids might be just around the corner.
Updated: 1.20.2022
Originally Published: 1.20.2022
Vaccines have played a pivotal role in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. These vaccines have proven overwhelmingly effective at preventing illness and keeping people who do get COVID out of the hospital, helped keep our most vulnerable safe, and allowed us to get some normalcy back. Although vaccines have been approved for kids 5 and older in the United States for some months, parents of younger kids are still waiting for COVID vaccine approval to protect their kids 4-years-old and younger. It sounds like that protection isn't too far away, and it would come at the perfect time when parents could really use a sigh of relief.
Dr. Anthony Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases and the White House's top medical adviser, said on January 19, 2022, that the Pfizer and BioNTech COVID vaccines for kids 4-years-old and under could be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) by the end of next month, according to Fortune.
"My hope is that it's going to be within the next month or so and not much later than that," Fauci said during a town hall event with Blue Star Families, a non-profit group that supports military families. He added, "but I can't guarantee that."
The timeline for COVID vaccine approval for the only age group that doesn't have an authorized vaccination against COVID in the U.S. isn't set in stone. Still, it aligns with the timeframe estimates we heard in December.
At the end of 2021, Pfizer and BioNTech said they were likely to submit the data from vaccine trials for kids under five within the first half of 2022. The vaccine manufacturer had originally planned on offering these kids a two-shot schedule but extended the trial to investigate a three-shot schedule after the two doses didn't show a robust enough immune response in two-to-four-year-olds.
The approval of a vaccine for the younger age group coming at the end of next month would be fantastic timing – and likely lifesaving for some kids who still don't qualify for a COVID vaccine. More kids are getting sick with COVID than ever — in the week that ended with Jan. 13, over 981,000 child COVID-19 cases were reported in the U.S. That's nearly a 70 percent increase from the previous week. It is also, per the American Academy of Pediatrics, four times higher than last winter's peak, which was no joke, either.
And it's not just kids testing positive for COVID: the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has reported increased hospitalization rates for kids under five after the Omicron variant became the most dominant variant in the U.S. If the timeline works out and the vaccine is granted emergency authorization at the end of next month, parents will undoubtedly breathe a little easier. And we could all use that right now.
Clinical trial: The Role of Serum Leptin Levels in Multiple Sclerosis Disease Activity While on Interferon Beta 1a (Rebif) Treatment
The Role of Serum Leptin Levels in Multiple Sclerosis Disease Activity While on Interferon Beta 1a (Rebif) Treatment
Stanley J Krolczyk, DO, RPH, Principal Investigator, Affiliation: University of South Florida
To determine a correlation between serum leptin levels, nitric oxide preceding a relapse and change in leptin and nitric oxide levels during exacerbation in relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis patients.
Official title: The Role of Leptin Levels in Multiple Sclerosis
Study design: Observational Model: Case-Crossover, Time Perspective: Prospective
Primary outcome: Fasting leptin and nitric oxide testing
Detailed description: This is an observational pilot study in patients with definitive relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis to determine whether there is a correlation in serum leptin levels and serum nitric oxide levels during a clinically observed increase in disease activity. Each subject will followed for 12 months while taking interferon beta-1a subcutaneous injections 3 times a week.
- Confirmed diagnosis of multiple sclerosis per update of McDonald criteria
- Initiating treatment with interferon beta 1a subcutaneous injection with minimal
dosing of 22mcg.
- 18-60 years of age.
- Women who are not pregnant or breast feeding, and who do not intend to become
- Stable dose of concomitant medications for 30 days prior to baseline. Efforts should
be made to maintain steady doses of concomitant medications for the duration of the study. Exclusion Criteria:
- Treatment on other interferon preparations, glatiramer acetate, in last 30 days or 6
months on Natalizumab, mitoxantrone, cyclosporine or other immunomodulators as determined by the PI.
- Treatment with any other investigational treatments within the past year or treatment
with any investigational treatments for multiple sclerosis within the last year.
- Any progressive form of MS.
- Known Hypersensitivity to interferon beta 1a.
- Inability to administer subcutaneous injections
- Inability to undergo laboratory evaluation.
- Seropositivity for HIV (by medical history)
- Diabetes Mellitus Tyle I or II (by medical history)
- Hepatitis B or C (by medical history)
- Uncontrolled psychiatric disorder.
- Any unstable illness that the investigator's opinion precludes participation in this
- Inability to maintain compliance with study protocol.
- Implanted devices or metal which would contraindicate MRI.
- Clinically significant abnormalities in CBC or CMP
- MMSE <25
USF Health, Tampa, Florida 33612, United States
De Rosa V, Procaccini C, La Cava A, Chieffi P, Nicoletti GF, Fontana S, Zappacosta S, Matarese G. Leptin neutralization interferes with pathogenic T cell autoreactivity in autoimmune encephalomyelitis. J Clin Invest. 2006 Feb;116(2):447-55. Epub 2006 Jan 12.
Musio S, Gallo B, Scabeni S, Lapilla M, Poliani PL, Matarese G, Ohtsu H, Galli SJ, Mantegazza R, Steinman L, Pedotti R. A key regulatory role for histamine in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis: disease exacerbation in histidine decarboxylase-deficient mice. J Immunol. 2006 Jan 1;176(1):17-26.
Body One | Body One Physical Therapy
06 May Body One Featured in WFYI Sponsor Spotlight
Posted at 14:19h in Media by Samantha Ridge
We're excited to share Body One's upcoming appearance in WFYI Insider's Magazine in the Sponsor Spotlight section. Body One has sponsored a variety of programming on WFYI/NPR this year and we're excited to partner with a great organization that provides valuable content to our community. ...
18 Feb Body One Makes Top 15 on IBJ List
Posted at 07:32h in Daily Life by bodyoneadmin
Recently, Body One Physical Therapy was honored to make the Indianapolis Business Journal (IBJ) list of Largest Indianapolis-Area Physical Therapy and Sports Rehab Clinics. Although Body One shares the list with large hospital-based groups, or other nation-wide companies, Body One came in at #12 on...
19 Nov Physical Therapy: Something for EveryBODY
Posted at 09:23h in Daily Life by bodyoneadmin
Physical therapy might be something you've had a brief experience with – maybe after injury, or surgery for example. Many people associate PT with elite athletes returning to their sports after a serious injury. Plenty of people also assume that because they aren't elite athletes,...
25 Jul You Love Shoes, But They Don't Love You Back (or Your Back)
Posted at 12:23h in Daily Life, Physical Therapy by bodyoneadmin
We get it, shoes can be fun! Fashionable shoes for women, trendy dress shoes for men – if you're into shopping and adding to your collection, finding a flashy new pair can feel like a total win. Except, if you're wearing shoes that put your...
18 Jul Do You Need Physical Therapy? How to Know When You Should Go
Posted at 11:58h in Daily Life, Physical Therapy by bodyoneadmin
If you've ever spent minutes or hours of your life you can't get back on the internet, trying to figure out if you should see a professional due to pain, discomfort, movement problems, or injury- wonder no more. Here's your guide for when you should...
A Half-Dozen Indispensable Apps For NPs and PAs | Florence-Health
Home Career Nurse Practitioner Career A Half-Dozen Indispensable Apps For NPs and PAs
A Half-Dozen Indispensable Apps For NPs and PAs
Apps in clinical practice? There is a dazzling — and often bewildering — array out there, all purporting to help you deliver better patient care. How can you decide which of these will best serve you and your patient?
We surveyed several sites and came up with a list of 6 highly recommended smartphone and tablet apps that address a variety of different clinical needs. Here — in no particular order — are brief overviews of each of these 6, and links where you can download them. We've also included links to various sites that offer more comprehensive lists by clinical subspecialty.
When You and Your Patient Use Different Words
Google Translate. This free app lets you enter English words or phrases that are translated into 1 of over 100 different languages. Google says "it's like having a personal interpreter in your pocket." The app even offers instant camera translation — show it a photo and it will instantly translate the image into text.
Electronic Preventive Services Selector. With this free app, you can search the US Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommendations on the web or on your mobile device. It is designed to help primary care providers identify those screening, counseling, and preventive measures that are best for individual patients. You can search by specific characteristics (the patient's age and gender, for example).
https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/p/ahrq-epss/9wzdncrdgc13?rtc=1&activetab=pivot:overviewtab
Not for Docs Only
Doximity. This app is your portal to the biggest social network for physicians and advanced practice clinicians. You can connect with peers, stay abreast of the latest clinical news, earn CME credits, and research jobs and compare salaries.
https://www.doximity.com/clinicians/download
It Does (Almost) Everything but Take the Patient's Temperature
Medscape App. Another free app, this one lets you quickly look up medications and dosages; check for possible adverse drug interactions; access an evidence-based disease and condition reference; read the latest medical news; earn CME; and review various procedures in a step-by-step fashion. It also offers a tool for you to quickly identify pills, a collection of clinical images, and also formulary information so you can quickly see if the script you are writing is covered by the patient's insurance.
VisualDx. Rated a top medical app by Harvard and the University of Pennsylvania, this is currently the only available medical app that provides images of various manifestations of a disease. A "one-stop shop for diagnostic clinical decision support," the app can be searched by symptoms, signs, patient-specific descriptors, leading to a customized differential diagnosis. The app is used to validate a diagnosis and review therapeutic options. It's data bank includes more than 40,000 clinical images.
This app requires a subscription to VisualDx.
https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.visualdx.android&hl=en_US
This One is Worth a Shot
CDC Vaccine Schedules. Here's an app for you if you recommend or administer vaccines. It shows child, adolescent, and adult vaccines recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices in a format that mimics the printed schedules. It usually takes 2 to 3 clicks to identify correctly identify dosages and timing of various vaccines.
Marquee HSA Silver 3500 Health Insurance Plan in Indiana | HealthCare.comGET PRICETalk to an agent: ObamacareMedicareShort-TermStatesOtherPhysicians Health Plan of Northern Indiana, Inc.* | Marquee HSA Silver 3500Marquee HSA Silver 3500 is an Obamacare health insurance plan offered by Physicians Health Plan of Northern Indiana, Inc.* that is available for individuals and families.This plan is a HMO, meaning you will have to stay within the insurance company's network, and will need to see a primary care doctor first and get a referral in order to see a specialist. (Read more about HMOs.)This plan is a Silver metal level plan, which generally has a mid-level monthly cost and deductible (and co-pay), and provides middle-of-the-road insurance coverage for people who occasionally use their health care benefits (doctors, prescription drugs, etc.).Deductible amount of $3,500. A deductible is the amount of healthcare costs you will pay on your own each year before the insurance company.Max out-of-pocket of $4,500, which is the most you will pay in a plan year outside of premiums, out-of-network providers and non-essential health benefits.Ways to Enroll or Learn MoreSPEAK WITH A LICENSED AGENTGET PRICEPlan SummaryMonthly CostGET PRICEPlan Name:Marquee HSA Silver 3500Plan ID:50816IN0200007Plan Type:HMODeductible: $3,500
Emergency Room and Urgent CareEmergency Room ServicesIn Network:$300 then No Charge after deductibleOut of Network:$300 then No Charge after deductibleUrgent Care ServicesIn Network:No Charge after deductibleOut of Network:Not CoveredAmbulance/Transportation ServicesIn Network:No Charge after deductibleOut of Network:No Charge after deductible
Male infertility or the inability for a man to have child is on the rise in India. The reasons for this condition can include various things including hormonal imbalance, reduction of sperm count, testicular injuries, obesity and bad lifestyle choices like abuse of drugs, excessive intake of alcohol and unhealthy eating habits.
The strain and anxiety that male infertility causes in a marriage can lead to problems not only in their relationship but can also lead to tension in the family in general. The person suffering from this condition can often feel
humiliated and depressed, and the pressure he feels due to his family and friends can sometimes lead him to seek help from dubious sources like medical quacks etc and spend large amounts of money on treatment that is ineffective and in some cases be harmful to his health.
We at Dr.Sanjeev specialize in treating male infertility by using non surgical and non invasive methods. We have successfully treated scores of patients become fathers with the help of 100% Herbal medicines.
Our treatment ensures faster recovery time and typical results or improvements start showing often after the first month of the treatment itself in most cases.
To know if our male infertility treatment is right for you, just click on the link below to get your online consultation with Dr. Sanjeev sharma and take the first step to end your frustration on the inability to conceive a child.
