Material Control Specialist in Tewksbury, MA - Leidos
Job #: R-00081769
The primary responsibilities of this role are to assist with inventory control and compliance processes across the entire SDA enterprise. This position conducts inventory analysis to solve inventory problems, implements and monitors inventory control procedures, and creates and leads physical cycle counts. The Material Control Specialist/Inventory Control Analyst will also train and assist with external warehousing functions and serves as the Subject Matter Expert in Inventory Control requirements for 3PL locations, both systemically and procedurally. This position will serve as the primary interface with our internal, external and manufacturing supply chain partners to ensure the supply chain process is adhered to. This individual will be responsible for providing Inventory program support of development, production and sustainment programs. This position will provide support for all audit processes and adhere to Sarbanes Oxley (SOX) standards.
• Coordinates Inventory Control activities
• Develops and monitors standard metrics for inventory accountability including inventory loss tolerances and improvement targets
• Supports operations with inventory control troubleshooting including review and resolution of incomplete transactions, incorrect location detail, etc.
• Auditing - internal and external audit support; work with audit teams to resolve any audit findings; coordinates/supervises external site audits; provides reports/ data to auditors; performs training for sites prior to audits
• Works cross functionally with other teams to support Supply Chain initiatives
• Facilitates system quiet periods and system cut over activities with operations
• Field training of Warehousing personnel and facility managers on SOX controls and processes
• Cycle counting improvement projects
• Identifies and implements continuous improvement opportunities through standard cadences in support of operational excellence for business wide system enhancements
• Supports Business Process team with other continuous improvement goals
• Ensure timely issue resolution for inventory program requirements and issues
• Deliver all proposal material and labor inputs on time
• Partner with supply chain data analytics to develop metrics and reports that enable visible and comprehensive materials management
• Collaborate with supply chain and data analytics to develop metrics and reports that enable visibility and measure impact of supply chain initiatives.
• Experience with Material Requirements Planning (MRP) software and advanced concepts
• Min 2 years of Supply Chain Management experience with a bachelor's degree OR equivalent combination of education and experience
• Understanding of industry principles, concepts, practices and standards along with a basic knowledge of the manufacturing process.
Mental health in India - statistics & facts | Statista
Mental health in India - statistics & facts
It is no surprise that the state of mental health of a country, correlates positively with its economic growth. Projections show that India will suffer massive economic losses owing to mental health conditions. As of 2015, on a global level, over 322.48 million people worldwide suffer from some form of depressive disorder and as of 2017, more than 14 percent of the total population in India suffer from variations of mental disorders. The majority of this share includes older adult females in India.
Why calculate burden of disease?
The burden of a disease or condition is calculated by adding together, the number of years of life a person loses due to disease or premature death, and the number of years of life lived with the disability. The sum of this is known as disability adjusted life year or DALY. While neuropsychiatric conditions are the leading causes of morbidity in many regions of the world today, they do not account for a significant number of deaths. In this context, such disorders are not regarded as having a major impact on the health of population. However, when the DALYs of such psychiatric disorders are calculated, it is able to effectively quantify, to an extent, not only the quality of a person's life living with a mental disorder, but more, the implications it has in terms of contribution towards the society and economy. In India, the contribution of mental illnesses to total disease burden doubled between 1990 and 2017. Some of these include severe disorders such as autism, bipolar disorders, and schizophrenia. However, depression followed by anxiety disorders were found to be the most prevalent among the female adult population.
What makes Indians susceptible?
In India, every seventh person suffers from some form of mental disorder. The epidemiology of mental disorders, specifically, depression on a global scale, has been vastly studied. Today, it is regarded as the leading contributor to disease burden and morbidity worldwide, that may even result in suicide if left untreated. Risk factors, relative to developing depressive and anxiety disorders, include bullying victimization, childhood sexual abuse, intimate partner violence, and lead exposure as an environmental risk factor which can lead to idiopathic developmental intellectual disability.
The implications of living in quarantine, as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic lockdown in India was not only a stress trigger but also had negative psychological effects on the population. Indians learnt to adapt to the new normal which affected every dimension of their lifestyle, i.e. levels of physical activity, sleep cycles, nutrition, and their social lives. In an attempt to cope with this paradigm shift, long bouts of stress caused by enforced isolation, financial stress, job cuts, along with unhealthy lifestyles were the precursors for depression and anxiety. In addition, those already victim to these disorders, prior to the pandemic, found their conditions to be exacerbated, as a result of social isolation and neglect due to overworked healthcare systems.
In the following 5 chapters, you will quickly find the 24 most important statistics relating to "Mental health in India".
Years of health lost
People globally that suffered from select mental health or substance disorders
Leading mental disorder among adults
Idiopathic developmental intellectual disablility
Leading risk factor contributing to mental disorders among female adults
The most important key figures provide you with a compact summary of the topic of "Mental health in India" and take you straight to the corresponding statistics.
Does Alcohol Raise Cholesterol – Cholesterol
Does Alcohol Raise Cholesterol
Cholesterol is just one of the most usual components of foods we consume. It offers lots of functions in our bodies, however its major function is to produce bile acids that help in the food digestion of fat. For this reason, it is typically described as "the quiet awesome." Does Alcohol Raise Cholesterol
Most people should aim to preserve their cholesterol under 200 milligrams/deciliter (mg/dl), or about 5.2 millimols/litre (mmol/L), if you have a genetic history of cardiovascular disease or you go to a high threat for creating a stroke or a cardiovascular disease. The National cholesterol guidelines provided by the American Heart Association recommend that lots of people get their cholesterol within the suggested variety. Some people have to strive a lot more difficult than others to achieve cholesterol degrees that will help them live a lengthy and also healthy life. Does Alcohol Raise Cholesterol
If your healthcare provider makes an idea for treatment, he may recommend numerous sorts of cholesterol screening. The front runner is called fasting lipid account. In this process, your healthcare provider takes a sample of your blood utilizing a non-penetrated skin hook. Your doctor after that determines your triglycerides, high density lipoproteins, high pressure in your arteries, and reduced density lipoproteins. Does Alcohol Raise Cholesterol
If you take all of these into consideration, after that your healthcare provider can establish exactly how healthy you are. He can additionally suggest a medicine that is made particularly to reduced cholesterol. One more option would certainly be a mix of medications. Some individuals prefer to take a natural cholesterol drug together with a day-to-day workout routine and also a healthy way of living changes program. If you do pick to utilize cholesterol reducing drugs, make sure to follow your physician's orders very closely. Your healthcare provider may additionally desire you to undertake greater than one type of treatment.
There are various other alternatives if your doctor feels that other approaches of therapy are not working. One such choice is to take statins. The function of taking statins is to reduce the quantity of cholesterol that develops in your blood. Although statins do have negative effects, they are the safest of all readily available treatments for individuals struggling to regulate cholesterol.
While physicians are unsure specifically what states might do to your body, there are specific ways that it can raise your risk for a cardiac arrest. Individuals that have high cholesterol levels and high blood pressure are at higher danger for a heart attack. If you currently have cardiovascular disease, after that you are currently at higher risk. Statins can aid you lower these threat variables.
If your doctor assumes that you have very high LDL cholesterol levels, then he may recommend a medicine called atheroma renolone to reduce them. Atheroma does come with some serious side effects, including vision problems, diarrhea, and also vomiting. People with extremely high triglycerides and low excellent cholesterol degrees are not candidates for this type of treatment due to the fact that triglycerides are an unsafe substance in their blood stream. While it can decrease LDL cholesterol degrees, it will certainly raise HDL cholesterol, which is the great cholesterol.
The reason that statins increase the danger for a cardiac arrest is since they interfere with the blood vessel movement in your body. As your arteries come to be stopped up, they will not be able to deliver the nutrients that they need. Without an increased blood circulation, the plaque accumulation will certainly begin, which will lead to a significant cardiac arrest. Because of this, people that take statins to lower their blood cholesterol degrees are in fact at an increased danger for a heart attack.
Naturally, you don't really want to endure a cardiovascular disease, yet utilizing statins can definitely raise your threat. One of the adverse effects of taking these medications is that you will experience muscle weakness. While this signs and symptom is just mild and won't influence your capability to work, it definitely isn't anything you wish to deal with. Opposite effects consist of looseness of the bowels, tiredness, nausea or vomiting, as well as a rise in the regularity of colds. Some people have actually even defined the tiredness that they feel as approaching being at completion phase of cancer.
If you are considering starting treatment, speak with your physician concerning the feasible negative effects and also risks. Statins are recommended by doctors all over the world and are typically provided to individuals who have high LDL cholesterol degrees. Of course, you need to constantly go over all choices with your physician prior to beginning any type of sort of medication, particularly if you have kidney disease or other significant medical concerns.
The bottom line is that there are several things you can do to reduce your total cholesterol, including your diet plan, workout, weight-loss, and also boosted consumption of foods that are high in HDL, or great cholesterol. Trans fats discovered in some popular dining establishments are a problem for many individuals and must be prevented when possible. Additionally, you must try to consume as healthy of a diet as feasible, staying clear of fatty foods as well as consuming even more foods that are high in healthy protein. These foods are not only good for you, however are additionally extremely easy to find, which makes regulating your cholesterol relatively easy.
João Meneses is a Junior Research Fellow at the INL working in the Nanosafety Research Group. João’s work focuses on computational methods on nanomaterials.
João obtained his MSc in Bioengineering with a specialization in Biomedical Engineering from the Faculty of Engineering of the University of Porto (FEUP), where he developed expertise in Biomedical Instrumentation, Processing and Analysis of signals and biomedical images, Tissue Engineering, and Regenerative Medicine. Moreover, João developed his Master’s Thesis in 3D Printing of polycaprolactone/graphene-based materials scaffolds for Tissue Engineering under a collaboration between FEUP and University Medical Center Utrecht (UMC).
João is fascinated by the entrepreneurship world and loves a good challenge.
Selected Publications
Raquel Costa-Almeida, Diana Bogas, José R. Fernandes, Licínia Timochenco, Filipa A. L. S. Silva, João Meneses, Inês C. Gonçalves, Fernão D. Magalhães, Artur M. Pinto
Near-Infrared Radiation-Based Mild Photohyperthermia Therapy of Non-Melanoma Skin Cancer with PEGylated Reduced Nanographene Oxide
Polymers 2020, 12(8), 1840
About INL
RESEARCH GROUPS
USER FACILITIES
BUSINESS & INNOVATION
FUNDED PROJECTS
CAREERS
NEWS
SCIENCE & SOCIETY
Data Protection Regulation
Cookie Policy
Data Protection Guide
Service Contract Conditions
Annual Report 2018
INL - International Iberian Nanotechnology Laboratory
Avenida Mestre José Veiga s/n, 4715-330 | Braga, Portugal | Tel: (+351) 253 140112
Location: 41°33'16.4"N | 8°24'00.8"W
© 2019 | All Rights Reserved
Top
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept All”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However, you may visit "Cookie Settings" to provide a controlled consent.
Cookie SettingsAccept All
Manage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may affect your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Cookie
Duration
Description
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional 11 months The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance 11 months This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
viewed_cookie_policy 11 months The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional
Functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Performance
Performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
Analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Advertisement
Advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Others
Others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
Hyped Talk: According to WHO, swine flu pandemic is over.
According to WHO, swine flu pandemic is over.
(Associated Press) The World Health Organisation (WHO) HAS declared the swine flu pandemic officially over, months after many national authorities started cancelling vaccine orders and shutting down hot lines as the disease ebbed from the headlines.
WHO Director-General Margaret Chan said the organisation's emergency committee of top flu experts advised her that the pandemic had "largely run its course" and the world is no longer in phase six, the highest influenza alert level.
» BIOTIC is hiring a Research Associate
	BIOTIC is hiring a Research Associate
	BIOTIC is hiring a Research Associate
Department/Program: Biomedical Translational Imaging Centre (BIOTIC) , Research Services
Type of Employment: Temporary Hourly FT long-term ( 100% FTE) x 1.0 position(s)
Union Status: Research , Non-Union
Compensation: As per Health Centre scale.
The IWK Health Centre is an internationally recognized academic health sciences centre located in Halifax, Nova Scotia, providing tertiary and primary care for two million women, children, youth and families across the Atlantic region. We are an academic health sciences centre respected for our world-class research and affiliated with Dalhousie University.
BIOTIC is a multi-site imaging centre that is embedded in the two leading research and teaching hospitals in Nova Scotia (QEII Health Sciences Centre and the IWK Health Centre). Our multidisciplinary and cross-functional teams, providing expertise in all facets of imaging research and development, collaborate on commercial development projects with industry partners as well as research and development projects with a number of institutions. Our advanced pre-clinical (MRI, PET, SPECT, CT) and clinical (3T MRI, MEG, EEG) imaging equipment are housed in three labs within the IWK and QEII. The BIOTIC team co-develops medical technologies as well as creates new imaging techniques and methods for diagnosing and monitoring treatment.
The QEII and IWK are conducting a large-scale research project involving MRI technologies. The project is funded by the Atlantic Innovation Fund (AIF) for a period of 5 years and involves close collaboration between BIOTIC and a commercial partner.
Reporting to the Scientific Lead, the Research Associate in Image Processing/Analysis will provide research support to the BIOTIC team and will be responsible for assisting with the oversight and planning of translational research developing new medical imaging analyses, in particular for MR image data, applying statistical and machine learning methods to medical imaging data, and mentoring students. Experience in comprehensive data analysis and sound knowledge of applied statistics and machine learning is required.
Programming / Data Analysis
This Research Associate position will primarily be involved in:
Developing analysis and simulation code for MRI data and,
Applying statistical analysis and machine learning approaches to the classification of MR images.
Depending on experience, the Research Associate may also be involved in:
Statistical analysis and machine learning applications to functional neuroimaging data, including MEG/EEG, and
Skin health doesn’t need to be complicated. The HydraFacial MD treatment can be tailored to safely & effectively address your unique needs.
The ultimate Hydrafacial experience! Begin the detoxification process with Lymphatic Drainage. Then, the Signature Hydrafacial deeply cleanses, exfoliates, extracts, & hydrates skin while addressing your specific akin concern with a Booster of your choice. Includes warm towels, steam, aromatherapy & facial massage for a relaxing enjoyable experience. This treatment concludes with LED Light Therapy to further reduce the visible signs of aging.
Laser Menu
Internal medicine clinic with a special interest in hormones, weight loss, lasers & aesthetics. We have been serving the Emerald Coast for over 13 years.
Quick Links
About
Services
Appointment
Contact
Testimonials
Offices
Blog
FAQ
Patient Forms
Press Articles
Stay Up to Date
Google Yelp Facebook-f Instagram Twitter Linkedin-in Youtube
Medical Website Design by O360
Copyright © 2022 Optimized360 LLC | All Rights Reserved | Privacy Policy | Terms of Use | Disclaimer | Web Accessibility Statement
Dean F. Wong, M.D., Ph.D., a professor of radiology and psychiatry at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine shares, “We could easily tell apart the two groups of patients. Those without Alzheimer’s disease retained much less of the compound, and those with Alzheimer’s disease retained much more of it. This is the first time we’ve been able to get results like this with a compound that can travel beyond the confines of a major academic medical center to the majority of the U.S. population.”
In addition he says that florbetapir’s portability may lead to many applications for this compound. For example imaging with florbetapir may resolve tricky cases in which patients might have other forms of dementia. In order to solve other problems, such as which patients are most likely to progress from mild cognitive impairment to full-blown Alzheimer’s disease the compound may help in further studies. It may also be useful in trials of new experimental Alzheimer’s therapeutics in order to measure its success for which the compound is being used limitedly.
Cure Pharmaceutical - Cure Pharmaceutical Enters Into Product Development Agreement with Therapix Biosciences To Develop Cannabinoid-Based Product For Sleep Disorders
CURE to Manufacture Therapix Proprietary Entourage Formulation (Dronabinol and PEA)-Based Product Using Proprietary CureFilm™ Technology
OXNARD, Calif., Nov. 07, 2017 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) — Cure Pharmaceutical (OTCQB:CURR), ("CURE"), a leading disruptive drug delivery technology announced today that it has entered into a product development agreement with Therapix Biosciences Ltd. (Nasdaq:TRPX), ("Therapix"), a specialty, clinical-stage pharmaceutical company focusing on the development of cannabinoid-based treatments. The joint effort will formulate a proprietary cannabinoid-based product on CURE's patented, multilayer oral thin film (OTF), CureFilm™, for the treatment of a wide range of sleep disorders.
This agreement is an extension of the recently announced partnership between CURE, Therapix and Israel's Assuta Medical Centers, Ltd. to develop first-in-class therapeutic products in the fields of personalized medicine and cannabinoids.
Under terms of the product development agreement, CURE will develop a formulation that combines 2.5mg of dronabinol, a synthetic form of the key therapeutic cannabinoid endogenous to cannabis, 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), and 200mg of palmitoylethanolamide (PEA) on its OTF technology. This formulation constitutes the advancement of Therapix's clinical development program focusing on sleep disorders, as recently announced in the agreement between Therapix and Assuta Medical Center in the initiation of a Phase IIa clinical trial in obstructive sleep apnea.
Sleep apnea is a very large, underserved market with no available pharmaceutical treatments. An estimated 18 million patients suffer from this disorder in the U.S. The most common method of treatment uses a medical device called constant positive airway pressure (CPAP). While CPAP therapy can be effective in reducing sleep apnea, about half of patients on CPAP are non-adherent. This suggests a clear market need for a safe, effective pharmaceutical treatment for sleep apnea and other sleep disorders.
"We are enthusiastic about this next phase in our strategic partnership with Therapix. This product development agreement serves as testament that we are delivering on the goal we set forth when we first partnered in July to pool our expertise and resources to develop new products," said CEO of CURE Rob Davidson. "Our main goal at CURE is to improve people's lives by redefining how medications are delivered, and sleep disorders is a medical indication with high unmet need that I think we can significantly impact."
Repurposing the FDA-approved dronabinol using Therapix's proprietary combination that exhibits the "entourage effect" is key to improving patient compliance and reducing unwanted side-effects. Dr. Ascher Shmulewitz, Executive Chairman of Therapix, added, "Our goal at Therapix is to provide an optimized therapy for the treatment of a host of unmet medical needs, including sleep disorders, while reducing the dependence on more harmful drugs."
Cure Pharmaceuticals has already completed the feasibility study for this new product and will begin proof of concept in the coming weeks, with the overall goal of providing a deeper un-interrupted sleep for the 40 million people who suffer from sleep related disorders in the United States. This, in addition to the way CURE's CureFilm™ OTF technology offers a better option for the 40% of Americans who can't swallow pills, improved bioavailability and fewer side effects, demonstrates CURE's commitment to creating a world in which all people can take their medications easily and effectively.
Therapix Biosciences Ltd. is a specialty clinical-stage pharmaceutical company led by an experienced team of senior executives and scientists. Our focus is creating and enhancing a portfolio of technologies and assets based on cannabinoid pharmaceuticals. With this focus, the company is currently engaged in two internal drug development programs based on repurposing an FDA approved synthetic cannabinoid (dronabinol): THX-110 targets the treatment of the symptoms of Tourette Syndrome; and THX-130 targets the high-value and under-served market of mild cognitive impairments and Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI). Please visit our website for more information at www.therapixbio.com.
A systematic review of economic evaluations of interventions to tackle cardiovascular disease in low- and middle-income countries | BMC Public Health | Full Text
Till A Boluarte3 &
Louis Niessen1,2,4
BMC Public Health volume 12, Article number: 2 (2012) Cite this article
We conducted a disease- and country-specific review, following the methodology of other standard systematic reviews in this area [5, 7] and respecting the PRISMA statement [8] (Additional file 1). We searched the databases PubMed, EconLit, Embase, and NHS EED for relevant articles. The searches were conducted in August 2010. In addition, the references of retrieved articles were manually searched for further material. The relevant publications of the DCP2 project and WHO-CHOICE program were completely hand-searched for relevant articles. As the use of technical terms for indexing international literature in databases is often inconsistent or errant we defined a search strategy with high sensitivity but low specificity. The search strategy consisted of freetext and MeSH terms related to economic evaluation and cardiovascular disease. The resulting hits were filtered for the occurrence of the term "developing countries" or any country name defined as middle- or low-income country according to the World Bank definition. The search included all years up to 2009. The search strings are provided in the additional material (Additional file 2--Search strings applied for the review).
The systematic literature search initially identified 953 candidate articles, of which 81 were selected for fulltext retrieval (Figure 1 Overview of in- and exclusion of studies). The majority of articles were discarded at this initial stage mainly because they were duplicates, or it was obvious from the bibliographic data that they violated basic inclusion criteria. Fourty-eight articles were dropped after the critical appraisal because they failed one or more inclusion criteria. Finally, 33 articles were included in the review, of which basic results were extracted to a table in the additional material (Additional file 3--Descriptive table of results). Interrater reliability (K) was assessed on a sample of 10% of studies (n = 9). K was 0.78 for study inclusion, i.e., fulfillment of all entry criteria, indicating a very good level of agreement [9].
Primary prevention was the most frequent type of intervention (n = 11), followed by case management of disease (n = 8) and secondary prevention (n = 5). Secondary prevention in our study is defined according to the guidelines of the American Heart Association [10], i.e. as a preventive intervention after an established heart disease has been diagnosed (e.g. coronary artery disease) (Figure 2). Nine studies scrutinized various types of strategies to combat cardiovascular disease. All but one case management strategy concerned treatment (n = 7), one study focused on rehabilitation (n = 1), while no screening strategy had been evaluated. Studies in the domain of primary prevention evaluated most often personal interventions (n = 6) and less often population-based interventions (n = 3), while two studies evaluated an intervention based on both approaches.
We explicitly refrained from ranking the interventions based on their cost-effectiveness ratio, in light of the diversity in methods and outcome measures applied across studies as well as the often considerable differences in methodological quality among studies (e.g. transparency on type of costs included). Nevertheless, we applied a simplified method--i.e. the so-called "hierarchical decision matrix" (Table 1)--that has been recommended to summarize results of systematic reviews of economic evaluations [11]. As a first step, outcomes on health benefits and costs against the comparator are extracted from the studies. Secondly, based on the findings, the evaluation results are allocated to 1 out of 9 categories, depending on their cost/health outcome profile. Each category defines how costs and health benefits of the intervention compare to its comparator, i.e. higher, equal, below. Considering all possible combinations, 9 categories are available for allocation--reaching from "higher costs/lower health benefits" to "less costs/higher health benefits". Finally, the matrix lists the different groups of intervention types/measures and counts the number of studies within the different cost/effectiveness categories. The categories are grouped so that they inform the decision maker on recommendations, i.e. "reject intervention", "neutral", "incremental analysis required", or "accept intervention". Details of results, including the reported cost-effectiveness ratios, are listed in the additional material (Additional file 4--Table of detailed results from included studies).
Table 1 Hierarchical Decision Matrix of interventions to tackle CVD in low- and middle income countries (by type of intervention and by type of intervention measure)
Modeling is a useful or indeed often necessary method to produce economic evaluations in particular when certain data is missing or when long-term results represent a core interest of the analysis. Eighteen out of 33 studies included in our review used some form of modeling. In modeling, one main decision concerns what effect measure to apply to compute intervention outcomes. In general, in our review, both efficacy or effectiveness studies are used. Revicki and Frank analyzed the importance of both types of studies for pharmacoeconomic evaluations [26]. While efficacy studies or RCTs demonstrate the performance of an intervention under ideal and controlled conditions, effectiveness studies show the impact of treatments under regular clinical conditions or "real world" circumstances. Efficacy studies focus on the internal validity of results and therefore accuracy of conclusions--however, their practical use is limited due to potential lack in the generalisability of their results. Effectiveness studies have a more real-life set-up and lead to results of more practical value, increasing external validity--at the potential cost of internal validity. Revicki and Frank conclude that cost-effectiveness studies with RCTs "may provide a very precise answer to the wrong question" [26]. In general, efficacy rates are higher than effectiveness rates, therefore giving the decision maker a biased impression on success within his population of concern. Due to the lower adherence to treatment guidelines (by doctors and patients), co-morbidities and limited patient monitoring, efficacy rates usually drop in effectiveness trials [27, 28]. Goldenberg and Glueck [29] reviewed retrospective studies concerning the goal attainment for statin therapy in managing CVD and found that ~20% of patients did not receive the necessary medication by their doctors when compared to guidelines. Furthermore, only 50% of treated patients achieved lipid-lowering goals with significant consequences for CVD mortality and morbidity. Another study focused on the patient side of adherence in an Italian population of 10,890 patients [30]. Only half of the patients who started on statins, continued to take the medication after 1 year. In patients for primary prevention of CVD, only 19% adhered to the regimen prescribed by the doctor. Predictors for non-adherence were younger age, total number of daily drug doses and having multiple prescribing physicians. Similar adherence rates can be found in the context of developing countries. Bowry et al. [31] systematically reviewed studies on the adherence to cardiovascular medication in resource-limited settings and found an average adherence rate of 58% according to pill-count and self-reporting. Common predictors of non-adherence to medication were poor knowledge, negative perceptions about the medication, occurrence of side-effects, high medication costs, and lack of family support. Factors such as age, gender, lifestyle, complex treatment regimens, and lack of access to health care services were not consistently associated with non-adherence.
Disease modeling is widely applied in research on developing countries, as is shown extensively in our review. Modeling approaches transfer data on disease epidemiology, risk factor associations, relative clinical efficacy, resource utilization, and unit cost from the country where the original study took place to a target country of interest. Half of the studies included in our review used this type of information in a model-based evaluation of interventions. A disease model is expected to incorporate as much data from the examined country [32] as possible, e.g. information on disease and strength and prevalence of risk factors, effectiveness of interventions within the population, the resource use needed, as well as prices for goods and services. Obviously, not all data is always available for all developing countries for reasons mentioned already above. This forces the scientist to transfer data from countries where this information is available to the country under analysis. Among those 18 studies that did use modeling in our review, none used external data on prices for services and goods, three used epidemiological and risk factor data from other countries, five used data on resource use from other settings, and all 18 studies used aggregated efficacy data from other healthcare settings to model the cost-effectiveness of interventions, without accounting for the presence of other risk factors. This shows that in particular data on effectiveness (and efficacy) of multiple and combined risk factor interventions is scarce for developing countries. In particular, large RCTs or meta-analyses of effectiveness studies are missing. Most estimates for effectiveness in those cases were based on data from developed countries. A study by Goeree et al. [33] confirms that this is a general obstacle when transferring data among regions. Goeree et al. analyzed 40 economic evaluations, which had tried to transfer results of studies to other geographic areas (not necessarily developed to developing countries). They developed a scoring system for the comprehensiveness of transferability (see Table 2 Modeling approaches based on the three most commonly advocated transferability factors).
Table 2 Modeling approaches based on the three most commonly advocated transferability factors (adopted from Goeree et al.2007 [33])
Lopez A, Disease Control Priorities Project: Global Burden of Disease and Risk Factors. 2006, Washington, DC: World Bank Publications
World Bank: World Development Indicators 2007. 2007, Washington, DC: World Bank Publications
Schwappach DL, Boluarte TA, Suhrcke M: The economics of primary prevention of cardiovascular disease--a systematic review of economic evaluations. Cost Eff Resour Alloc. 2007, 5: 5-10.1186/1478-7547-5-5.
Mulligan JA, Walker D, Fox-Rushby J: Economic evaluations of non-communicable disease interventions in developing countries: a critical review of the evidence base. Cost Effectiveness and Resource Allocation. 2006, 4: 7-10.1186/1478-7547-4-7.
Schwappach DL, Boluarte TA: HEE-GER: a systematic review of German economic evaluations of health care published 1990-2004. BMC Health Serv Res. 2007, 7: 7-10.1186/1472-6963-7-7.
Smith SC, Allen J, Blair SN, et al: AHA/ACC guidelines for secondary prevention for patients with coronary and other atherosclerotic vascular disease: 2006 update. Circulation. 2006, 113: 2363-2372. 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.106.174516.
Nixon J, Khan KS, Kleijnen J: Summarising economic evaluations in systematic reviews: a new approach. BMJ. 2001, 322 (7302): 1596-1598. 10.1136/bmj.322.7302.1596.
Gaziano TA: Reducing the growing burden of cardiovascular disease in the developing world. Health Aff (Millwood). 2007, 26: 13-24. 10.1377/hlthaff.26.1.13.
Yusuf S, Pais P, Afzal R, Xavier D, Teo K, Eikelboom J, et al: Effects of a polypill (Polycap) on risk factors in middle-aged individuals without cardiovascular disease (TIPS): a phase II, double-blind, randomised trial. Lancet. 2009, 373: 1341-1351.
Dranove D: Is there underinvestment in R&D about prevention?. J Health Econ. 1998, 17: 117-127. 10.1016/S0167-6296(97)00015-5.
Manuel DG, Lim J, Tanuseputro P, Anderson GM, Alter DA, Laupacis A, et al: Revisiting Rose: strategies for reducing coronary heart disease. BMJ. 2006, 332: 659-662. 10.1136/bmj.332.7542.659.
Chisholm D, Doran C, Shibuya K, Rehm J: Comparative cost-effectiveness of policy instruments for reducing the global burden of alcohol, tobacco and illicit drug use. Drug and Alcohol Review. 2006, 25: 553-565. 10.1080/09595230600944487.
Shibuya K, Ciecierski C, Guindon E, Bettcher DW, Evans DB, Murray CJ: WHO framework convention on tobacco control: development of an evidence based global public health treaty. BMJ. 2003, 327: 154-157. 10.1136/bmj.327.7407.154.
Kishore SP, Herbstman BJ: Adding a medicine to the WHO model list of essential medicines. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2009, 85: 237-239. 10.1038/clpt.2008.258.
Revicki DA, Frank L: Pharmacoeconomic evaluation in the real world. Effectiveness versus efficacy studies. Pharmacoeconomics. 1999, 15 (5): 423-434. 10.2165/00019053-199915050-00001.
Godwin M, Ruhland L, Casson I, MacDonald S, Delva D, Birtwhistle R, et al: Pragmatic controlled clinical trials in primary care: the struggle between external and internal validity. BMC Med Res Methodol. 2003, 3: 28-10.1186/1471-2288-3-28.
Goldenberg N, Glueck C: Efficacy, effectiveness and real life goal attainment of statins in managing cardiovascular risk. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2009, 5 (1): 369-376.
Deambrosis P, Saramin C, Terrazzani G, Scaldaferri L, Debetto P, et al: Evaluation of the prescription and utilization patterns of statins in an Italian local health unit during the period 1994-2003. Eur J Clin Pharmacol. 2007, 63 (2): 197-203. 10.1007/s00228-006-0239-3.
Bowry AD, Shrank WH, Lee JL, Stedman M, Choudhry NK: A systematic review of adherence to cardiovascular medications in resource-limited settings. J Gen Intern Med. 2011, 26 (12): 1479-1491. 10.1007/s11606-011-1825-3.
Buxton MJ, Drummond MF, Van Hout BA, Prince RL, Sheldon TA, Szucs T, et al: Modelling in economic evaluation: an unavoidable fact of life. Health Econ. 1997, 6: 217-227. 10.1002/(SICI)1099-1050(199705)6:3<217::AID-HEC267>3.0.CO;2-W.
Goeree R, Burke N, O'Reilly D, Manca A, Blackhouse G, Tarride JE: Transferability of economic evaluations: approaches and factors to consider when using results from one geographic area for another. Curr Med Res Opin. 2007, 23: 671-682. 10.1185/030079906X167327.
Brownley KA, Hurwitz BE, Schneiderman N: Ethnic variations in the pharmacological and nonpharmacological treatment of hypertension: biopsychosocial perspective. Hum Biol. 1999, 71: 607-639.
Evans DB, Edejer TT, Adam T, Lim SS: Methods to assess the costs and health effects of interventions for improving health in developing countries. BMJ. 2005, 331: 1137-1140. 10.1136/bmj.331.7525.1137.
Walls HL, Peeters A, Reid CM, Liew D, McNeil JJ: Predicting the effectiveness of prevention: a role for epidemiological modeling. J Prim Prev. 2008, 29: 295-305. 10.1007/s10935-008-0143-y.
Gotzsche PC: Methodology and overt and hidden bias in reports of 196 double-blind trials of nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs in rheumatoid arthritis. Control Clin Trials. 1989, 10: 31-56. 10.1016/0197-2456(89)90017-2.
Weinstein MC, O'Brien B, Hornberger J, Jackson J, Johannesson M, McCabe C, et al: Principles of good practice for decision analytic modeling in health-care evaluation: report of the ISPOR Task Force on Good Research Practices--Modeling Studies. Value Health. 2003, 6: 9-17. 10.1046/j.1524-4733.2003.00234.x.
Karppanen H, Mervaala E: Sodium intake and hypertension. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2006, 49: 59-75. 10.1016/j.pcad.2006.07.001.
WHO Statistical Information System (WHOSIS): 2009, Geneva: World Health Organization, accessed on 14-8-2009, [http://www.who.int/whosis/en/]
Garrison LP, Neumann PJ, Erickson P, Marshall D, Mullins CD: Using real-world data for coverage and payment decisions: the ISPOR Real-World Data Task Force report. Value Health. 2007, 10: 326-335. 10.1111/j.1524-4733.2007.00186.x.
The pre-publication history for this paper can be accessed here:http://www.biomedcentral.com/1471-2458/12/2/prepub
Marc Suhrcke & Louis Niessen
UKCRC Centre for Diet and Activity Research (CEDAR), Robinson Way, Cambridge, CB2 0SR, UK
Department of Medicine, University of Witten/Herdecke, Faculty of Health, Alfred-Herrhausen-Str. 50, 58448, Witten, Germany
Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 615 N Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD, USA
Correspondence to Till A Boluarte.
Suhrcke, M., Boluarte, T.A. & Niessen, L. A systematic review of economic evaluations of interventions to tackle cardiovascular disease in low- and middle-income countries. BMC Public Health 12, 2 (2012). https://doi.org/10.1186/1471-2458-12-2
