Electrical Safety Specialists, Author at Electrical Safety Specialists
By Electrical Safety Specialists | June 23, 2022 | 0
Arc flash risk assessment can help save lives and minimize the possibility of injuries and lost time accidents. This assessment is required by OSHA and the NFPA 70E to determine the risk level for all areas in which your employees perform work. As part of a company's safety protocols, an arc flash risk assessment…
By Electrical Safety Specialists | June 9, 2022 | 0
Lockout tagout training is a critical component for safeguarding employees who operate and maintain equipment. The most obvious benefit of LOTO is the safety of the employees who work in and around heavy machinery. Prior to the widespread implementation of lockout tagout procedures, hundreds of people were killed each year and thousands more injured…
By Electrical Safety Specialists | May 26, 2022 | 0
Arc Flash Training courses provided by Electrical Safety Specialists keep your employees up to date with the ever-changing NFPA 70E standards. Our introductory course covers the complex standards and regulations per OSHA and NFPA 70E, and the latest in OSHA's enforcement direction. Although OSHA doesn't enforce NFPA 70E, the agency can use the standard to…
By Electrical Safety Specialists | May 12, 2022 | 0
Electrical safety training from an NFPA Certified Electrical Safety Compliance Professional (CESCP) is crucial to reducing your organization's liability, lost time, injuries, death, and costly OSHA citations. The CESCP Certification Program The Certified Electrical Safety Compliance Professional (CESCP) certification program was designed by the NFPA for electricians and other personnel exposed to electrical hazards as…
By Electrical Safety Specialists | April 28, 2022 | 0
NFPA 70E training from ESS protects employees from injury and builds a culture of safety within the company. Electrical safety mandates and regulations are updated frequently and must be an ongoing consideration. OSHA 1910 Subpart S mandates that any employee who might come into contact with an electrical hazard must receive electrical safety training. Though…
By Electrical Safety Specialists | April 14, 2022 | 0
Lockout tagout training is a critical component for safeguarding employees who operate and maintain equipment. The majority of OSHA citations result from improper or lack of lockout tagout procedures, documentation, annual inspections, or other elements. ESS will take the aggravation out of developing your procedures by optimizing your lockout tagout program to help you save…
Arc flash risk assessment, also known as an arc flash study, is conducted to determine the risk levels for all areas in which employees may perform energized work. This study saves lives and money by ensuring safe work practices and minimizing the possibility of injuries and lost time accidents. An arc flash study is required…
Electrical safety training is available from Electrical Safety Specialists anywhere across the United States for both qualified and unqualified electrical workers. The Occupational Safety And Health Administration (OSHA) defines a "qualified person" as "one who, by possession of a recognized degree, certificate, or professional standing, or who by extensive knowledge, training, and experience, has successfully…
By Electrical Safety Specialists | February 24, 2022 | 0
Arc flash training as required by OSHA can be provided nationwide by Electrical Safety Specialists. OSHA 1910 Subpart S mandates that any employee who might come into contact with an electrical hazard must receive electrical safety training. What is arc flash and why is training necessary? When an electric current passes through air between ungrounded…
By Electrical Safety Specialists | February 10, 2022 | 0
Lockout tagout training is required by OSHA for all employees who operate and maintain equipment. While the certification of training does not expire on a schedule, there are explicitly stated requirements for retraining. OSHA 1910.147(c)(1) states: The employer shall establish a program consisting of energy control procedures, employee training and periodic inspections to ensure that…
Articles on both technologies
Curated by Carla Andrea Gatica
Scooped by Carla Andrea Gatica
From www.youtube.com -	December 3, 2012 11:25 AM
Learn more here: www.lifetechnologies.com Jon talks about the TAL effector proteins that were first identified as bacterial plant pathogens. Based on this, Life Technologies developed a new and powerful way to edit genomes and control gene function.
From www.youtube.com -	December 3, 2012 11:18 AM
Gene-editing nucleases can make targeted and precise changes to an organism's genome. This has opened up new possibilities for the study of gene function, as well as the treatment of disease.
Sangamo BioSciences to Webcast Analyst Briefing on Thursday, December 6 ... - Sacramento Bee
From www.sacbee.com -	December 3, 2012 11:17 AM
Sangamo BioSciences to Webcast Analyst Briefing on Thursday, December 6 ...Sacramento BeeSangamo's core competencies enable the engineering of a class of DNA-binding proteins known as zinc finger DNA-binding proteins (ZFPs).
Knockout Rat - Wiki Article
Long Opportunity Emerges As Sangamo Leverages Gene Editing To Hemophilia ... - Seeking Alpha
From seekingalpha.com -	December 3, 2012 11:17 AM
Long Opportunity Emerges As Sangamo Leverages Gene Editing To Hemophilia ...Seeking AlphaAt the heart of Sangamo's clinical trial is a class of enzymes called zinc finger nucleases (ZFNs).
Raman scattering studies of the high-pressu – lily coal top
HomeUncategorizedRaman scattering studies of the high-pressu
Raman scattering studies of the high-pressu
Analysis of colonic tone was cialis generic carried out by two independent observers, using a subjective grading system and also by an objective method using computerized planimetry. Evaluation of social demographic aspect of life quality of coal extraction workers in Kouzbass enterprises How the presence of metastases was excluded must be given, because patients without known metastases constitute the usual group of greatest interest.
Sendai virus pneumonia: evidence for the early recruitment of gamma delta T cells during the disease course. The review authors extracted the data independently and estimated cialis daily standardised mean differences for continuous outcomes.
Serum cystatin C concentration is an independent cialis generika marker for hypertensive LVH. In the case of 2-aminoethanethiol, excess Ba(OH)2 was needed to offset the effect of the hydrochloride. Compared with conventional Maker fringe methods, our experimental technique offers several advantages of direct and rapid calculation of coherence lengths of optical nonlinear crystals.
ASNC imaging guidelines for SPECT nuclear cardiology procedures: Stress, protocols, and tracers. Astrocyte-enriched cultures, prepared from 8- to 9-wk-old embryonic brains, expressed LIF mRNA cialis from canada and secreted LIF protein.
This experience suggests that emergency CAS with tandem balloon protection is a potential treatment for a stenotic lesion with an intraluminal thrombus in patients with fluctuating stroke. Acidosis and hypoxemia induced by sleep apnea caused vasoconstriction of the pulmonary artery and long-term repetition of this had caused pulmonary hypertension.
Circulating EDAc-MPs may be a useful biomarker predictive of one-year morality in ES-NSCLC patients. In the last years many authors developed a psychoeducational point of cialis generico online view based on the concept of expressed emotions.
The firing of high velocity weapons, i.e., rifles, onto highly angular soils induced significant fragmentation of the bullets and/or pulverization of the soil itself. Suppression of activation of muscle sympathetic nerve during non-noxious local cooling cialis cost after the end of local cooling in normal adults.
It can manifest as primarily a pancreatic disorder or in association with other disorders of presumed autoimmune cause. It was found that pure Fe3O4 exhibited the highest cialis canada activity with the reaction rate constant at 0.959 min(-1). Inner-city Hispanic children were followed prospectively in an asthma-specific disease management system (Breathmobile) for a period of 2 years.
gammaDPGA is a poor immunogen, but when covalently bound to a carrier protein, it elicits serum antibodies. Timolol maleate, a beta blocker, cialis 30 day trial coupon in the treatment of common migraine headache. Regulation of macrophage eicosanoid production by hydroperoxy-and hydroxy-eicosatetraenoic acids.
To investigate long-term re-bleeding events after a negative capsule cialis generico in farmacia endoscopy in patients with obscure gastrointestinal bleeding (OGIB) and the risk factors associated with the procedure. Effect of various vehicles on ketoprofen permeation across artificial membranes and excised rat skin. Tropical medicine or multicultural discrimination in medical experience
Oxidation State-Dependent Intramolecular Electronic Interaction cialis dosage recommendations of Carbazole-Based Azacyclophanes with 9,10-Anthrylene Units. Brine shrimp lethality and MTT cell viability assays were used for cytotoxic potential.
Ex vivo purging is an emerging technique for successful transplantation of autologous hematopoietic stem cells in the treatment of leukemia. We describe cialis canadian pharmacy the pathogenesis, clinical manifestations, diagnosis and treatment of this pathology.
Cellular analysis of renal neoplasia: induction of renal tumors in dietary-conditioned rats by dimethylnitrosamine, with a reappraisal of morphological characteristics. A sample of 58 patients with schizophrenia and 44 matched healthy volunteers underwent assessment with high-resolution 1-mm-thick anatomical MRI. Causal role of the prefrontal cortex in top-down modulation of visual processing and cialis generico working memory.
Experimental study of wallerian degeneration and of reinnervation of skeletal muscle. These results provide evidence that the observed species-related differences in cellular toxicities are due to differences in the cellular uptake/binding of cialis 20mg rezeptfrei bestellen auf rechnung the dye. Energetics of growth of Microbacterium thermosphactum at low temperatures.
Singular value decomposition of genome-scale mRNA lengths distribution reveals asymmetry in RNA gel electrophoresis band cialis generic tadalafil for sale broadening. When comparing the two methods using the epidemiologically unrelated isolates, automated ribotyping using PvuII distinguished 38 different ribotypes with a D-value of 0.8956. Furthermore, we advocate the continued need to study BRCA1 and its pathway by prospectively correlating clinicopathologic data with molecular aberrations.
Preparation of functionally biocartilage substitutes in vitro for cartilage repair is an attractive concept with the recent advances in tissue engineering. Inappropriate thresholds were reflected in the high cialis generika in deutschland kaufen transfusion rates.
A direct measurement of crossing cialis generic prices over in human prophase oocytes. Serum-stimulated changes in calcium transport and distribution in mouse 3T3 cells and their modification by dibutyryl cyclic AMP.
Mechanisms underpinning inattention and hyperactivity: neurocognitive support for ADHD dimensionality. Associations between the most common clinical features and cialis dosage disease severity were evaluated by principal component analysis.
Ocular hypertension cialis coupon also caused upregulations in the iron-regulating protein ceruloplasmin, the anaerobic glycolytic enzyme lactate dehydrogenase, and the transcription factors cFos and p-cJun. Tanshinone IIA Protects Against Folic Acid-Induced Acute Kidney Injury.
The extinction trace was also susceptible to enhancement by a post-reactivation infusion of a memory-enhancing drug (NaB), which was also able to prevent rapid fear reacquisition cialis for sale (savings). Androgen withdrawal or AR-specific small interfering RNA significantly reduced the growth rate while each maneuver induced the expression of c-Met.
Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Brookland Arkansas 72417 - Tested Rehabilitation Facility In Your City
Inpatient Rehabilitation Facility Brookland Arkansas 72417
When it pertains to getting rid of the trouble of addiction to alcohol and drugs, the most exceptional step to take is to enter a drug rehab center where you or your liked one will get all the help to give up. However, the cost of enrolling in a rehab constantly show up initially in the list of concerns of lots of people. This is a requirements that has terrified away a great deal of individuals from rehabilitation centers. However the good news is that there are lots of centers out there for you that does not firmly insist on a lot of money. This short article is composed to describe to you the best ways to seek a cheap center that does not compromise quality.
1 Brookland AR 72417 Inpatient Alcohol Rehab For Two Weeks?
3 Inpatient Alcohol Rehab Centers Near Brookland Arkansas 72417
Brookland AR 72417 Inpatient Alcohol Rehab For Two Weeks?
When they truly delighted in the addiction, every addicted person keeps in mind the time. They actually liked taking the harmful substance, however after some time they discovered that the excitement went away, and they are entrusted this inner craving to take more and more of the drug, so.
Leaving your family members in the care of others can lead you to worry about their safety and other concerns. In this case, do not fret about their security. The law required nursing homes to have a Resident's Costs of Rights. It is like a constitution within the assisted living home. There are certain issued tackled in here. As people, they also have rights to safeguard. In assisted living home, these are provided to them. These include the rights they have when it comes to their physical conditions specifically health concerns. There are likewise rights when it concerns their privacy, legal issues, control check outs. You likewise require to consider this, and check if you concur with their principles.
Research the infant's very first year. Keep in mind the broad definitions of "typical" child advancement. "You're avoiding parenting stress and anxiety by understanding some things to expect," Barfoot says.
The bat has actually become the most endangered land mammal in North America due to the death rate from this disease and its slow reproduction rate. Humans can bring the illness from cave to cavern. The U. S. Forest Service has closed all caves and deserted mines in nationwide forests and meadows in some states. Privately owned, pay to check out websites are not volunteering to do the very same. In Texas, a bat inpatient rehabilitation centers has actually been developed to rescue sick bats and deserted young bats.
Kids aren't the only ones affected by Brandon's courage and favorable outlook. His loved ones have been with him every action of the method the past 2 years, and are proud of exactly what he has conquered. His mother, Carol Halloran Ferguson, isn't at all surprised at her son's willpower.
Another highly recommended inpatient drug rehab center that will not burn a hole in your pocket are those covered by insurance coverage. Great deals of of these centers use inpatient treatment which call for an addict to lodge in the center till he or she is devoid of dependency totally. It is recommended to speak with your insurance company if going to a rehab center is covered or not. If it is, then it can save you a great deal of your difficult earned money.
Inpatient Alcohol Rehab Centers Near Brookland Arkansas 72417
Why? Because you'll go through regressions, and every regression will be a growing number of tough to obtain from, so, you're beginning to think of outpatient inpatient rehab. You are believing that perhaps they'll assist you, possibly not.
Today I feel great, and I do not care about having cigarettes. Pre-owned smoke is an issue for me, due to the fact that I get my addition back from previously owned smoke. The dependency discomfort is gone with in 2 weeks when that occurs. The temptation to obtain a pack of cigarettes comes on me. But I know that getting cigarettes will make my issue even worse, then not cigarette smoking. Not smoking cigarettes is my service to stopping the addiction, and cigarette smoking will make it even worse.
Combining treatment with yoga, meditation, self-analysis, anger management, recreation, group, and therapy activities for mind, body, soul restoration.
Bitcoin Compliance for BTMs and Blockchain Platforms - BTM Compliance
I'm Looking For I'm Looking ForConsulting Introductory CallAML PolicyTraining ProgramIndependent Review/AuditRisk Assessment
Bitcoin ATM Compliance Services
We offer a custom-built Compliance Program with AML/KYC controls for Bitcoin ATM kiosks.
Custom Built AML
We use our expert team of developers to build you the program that fits your business needs. Let us know how we can help you!
We register your business with FinCEN as a Money Services Business to comply with the Federal registration.
Our experts monitor activity, document all pertinent information and report any suspicious activity on your behalf.
Our top priority is your satisfaction and security, that's why we're available 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
We take care of all the hard work in monitoring your Bitcoin BTM Kiosk for you.
We offer consulting on FinCEN regulations and registration of your Business.
We offer specialized Audit and Review Services for your Business.
AML Compliance for Bitcoin ATM / BTM Operators
FinCEN requires MSB's to establish an effective AML program with the following procedures:
Our professionals collect all relevant identification information of your customers (name, surname, date of birth, passport information, residential and business address, socialsecurity number or taxpayer identification number) and will conduct the proper KYC methods according to the provided AML Policy and business model.
Federal regulation requires us to report any transaction or activity that is deemed suspicious and involves or aggregates funds or other assets of $2,000 or more, ($5,000 or more if identified by issuers from a review of clearance records) in this case, a Suspicious Activity Report (SAR) will be filed.
We have on staff professionals with many years of experience in Anti-Money Laundering and Customer Due Diligence that will be monitoring the transactions of your customers, detect and report any financial crimes to the proper channel.
When a transaction occurs in the amount of $10,000 or more, a Currency Transaction Report (CTR) must be filed.
Our professionals file and submit any necessary CTR's with FinCEN according to relevant regulations.
Federal regulation requires record keeping for transactions in the amount of $3,000 and more.
We store and maintain all necessary recordkeeping information of your customers (name, address, verification of ID and SSN/TIN)).
4 steps to having your Business Compliant
1. Analysis of Your Business Platform Needs
2. Building a Specialized Tailored Program
3. Appointing the Compliance Officer
4. Monitoring Your Day to Day Work
Our full Bitcoin ATM compliance package, which takes you from registration to operation, is a best-in-class solution for the Bitcoin ATM companies looking for full compliance from start to finish. We custom build your AML Policy, file for FinCEN registration, file all necessary reports, and provide necessary training and risk assessment; And if you already have compliance and need to go through mandatory review we provide Independent Audit / Review services.
Customized AML
The Anti-Money Laundering program is key to your company's compliance success. Each program is built business specific and BTM Compliance will manage and update as necessary requirements evolve. We ensure a sense of security with our easy to manage dashboard that is run by our team of expert monitoring analysts.
As a BTM Operator, we want you to feel secure with our unmatched Customer Due Diligence Program. This key element is essential in effectively managing risks and protecting you against potential financial crimes and nefarious activities. All information collected, including patterns and comparisons to government lists are used to clear or report any suspicious activity.
Customized KYC
It's important to know who you're doing business with. Our experts efficiently manage all KYC policies and regulatory compliance requirements surrounding your customized program to determine all client and counterparty data and documentation required to support the KYC and regulatory compliance obligation
Our experts independently test, review and monitor all aspects of your anti-money laundering program for overall integrity and effectiveness. Leave it to us to make sure all procedures and updates are implemented to make sure your programs are kept secure and running as they should.
Drafting AML Policy
We offer a custom-built Compliance Program with AML/KYC controls for Bitcoin ATM/BTM kiosks.
Our expert team of developers are ready to build the program that fits your business needs and is structured to satisfy all Federal guidelines.
Knowing your customer allows you the ability to understand what is going on in your business and a vital tool in keeping it free of criminal activity.
Customer Due Diligence (CDD) is key to effectively managing risks against potential financial crimes and nefarious activities.
Suspicious Activity Reporting (SAR) is essential to keeping your business secure. If we detect that any suspicious activity is taking place, a SAR will be filed with FinCEN according to regulation.
We take all necessary measures to independently test and maintain your AML Program.
Our Compliance Officer is vested fully in implementing and enforcing the AML/KYC Program.
We provide training for all evolving regulations relating to FinCEN as they pertain to your business.
KYC compliance for Bitcoin Atm / Btm
We are always here to help with your compliance needs. We offer you ongoing consulting services to keep your business running smooth and stress free. You ask, we answer.
We build and secure all necessary tools to keep your business compliant with all Federal regulations.
Acrivastine - Uses, Dosage, Side Effects, Price, Composition | Practo
Acrivastine is an effective anti-allergic medicine used to relieve the symptoms caused by allergic reactions such as hay fever or urticaria (hives). The symptoms may include sneezing, runny nose, itchy eyes, skin rashes, redness of the eyes, etc.
Major & minor side effects for Acrivastine
Uses of Acrivastine
This medicine is not recommended for use in patients with a known allergy to acrivastine or any other components present along with it.
This medicine is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment due to the risk of severe adverse effects.
This medicine should be used with extreme caution in patients with mild to moderate kidney impairment due to the increased risk of adverse effects. Such patients should consult a doctor before taking this medicine. Close monitoring of kidney function, appropriate dose adjustments, or replacement with a suitable alternative may be required in some cases based on the clinical condition of the patient. This medicine is not recommended for use in patients with severe renal impairment
Take this medicine with or without food. Do not take in larger or smaller amounts than advised/prescribed. Consult the doctor if you experience any undesirable effects. Do not stop taking the medicine before completion of the course/without consulting your doctor.
This medicine inhibits the actions of certain chemical substances which are responsible for causing allergic symptoms.
https://pubchem.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/compound/acrivastine
https://www.drugbank.ca/drugs/DB09488
[Internet]. nhs.uk. 2018 [cited 14 December 2018]. Available from:
https://www.nhs.uk/medicines/acrivastine/
[Internet]. Lagaay.com. 2018 [cited 14 December 2018]. Available from:
https://www.lagaay.com/Catalogus/Product%20information/005100/Acrivastine%208%20mg%20capsules%20leaflet.pdf
The addition of tocilizumab to DMARD therapy for rheumatoid arthritis: a meta-analysis of randomized controlled trials | Meta
PMID: 19936725
DOI: 10.1007/s00228-009-0754-0
Tocilizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that binds to the interleukin-6 receptor. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of adding tocilizumab to disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) therapy for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis (RA). We performed a meta...read more
The pathophysiologic roles of interleukin-6 in human disease(opens in new tab)
Annals of Internal MedicineJanuary 24, 1998
D A PapanicolaouG P Chrousos
Cytokine pathways and joint inflammation in rheumatoid arthritis(opens in new tab)
The New England Journal of MedicineMarch 22, 2001
E H Choy, G S Panayi
The importance of quality of primary studies in producing unbiased systematic reviews(opens in new tab)
Archives of Internal MedicineMarch 25, 1996
K S KhanA R Jadad
New therapies for treatment of rheumatoid arthritis(opens in new tab)
LancetJune 16, 2007
Josef S SmolenP Emery
Tocilizumab inhibits signal transduction mediated by both mIL-6R and sIL-6R, but not by the receptors of other members of IL-6 cytokine family(opens in new tab)
International ImmunopharmacologyAugust 17, 2005
Masahiko MiharaYoshiyuki Ohsugi
Summing up evidence: one answer is not always enough(opens in new tab)
LancetJanuary 24, 1998
J LauC H Schmid
Assessing the quality of reports of randomized clinical trials: is blinding necessary?(opens in new tab)
Controlled Clinical TrialsFebruary 1, 1996
A R JadadH J McQuay
Assessing the quality of randomized controlled trials. Current issues and future directions(opens in new tab)
International Journal of Technology Assessment in Health CareJanuary 1, 1996
D MoherP Tugwell
Ventral midline caesarean section for dystocia secondary to failure to dilate the cervix in three alpacas(opens in new tab)
Australian Veterinary JournalJuly 25, 2000
J SaltetD R Hodgson
Modified disease activity scores that include twenty-eight-joint counts. Development and validation in a prospective longitudinal study of patients with rheumatoid arthritis(opens in new tab)
Arthritis and RheumatismJanuary 1, 1995
M L PrevooP L van Riel
Tocilizumab as monotherapy or combination therapy for treating active rheumatoid arthritis: a meta-analysis of efficacy and safety reported in randomized controlled trials(opens in new tab)
Arthritis Research & TherapySeptember 24, 2016
Xavier M TeitsmaJohannes W G Jacobs
Induction of immune tolerance in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis(opens in new tab)
Nature Reviews. RheumatologyApril 7, 2011
Salvatore AlbaniBerent Prakken
Therapeutic potential of interleukin-6 antagonism in bipolar disorder(opens in new tab)
Medical HypothesesSeptember 14, 2010
E BrietzkeB Lafer
Clinical safety of tocilizumab in rheumatoid arthritis(opens in new tab)
Expert Opinion on Drug SafetyDecember 3, 2010
Bernard Bannwarth, Christophe Richez
Methotrexate intoxication: Beyond the adverse events(opens in new tab)
International Journal of Rheumatic DiseasesAugust 28, 2018
Ediz DalkilicYavuz Pehlivan
Long-term safety and efficacy of tocilizumab, an anti-IL-6 receptor monoclonal antibody, in monotherapy, in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (the STREAM study): evidence of safety and efficacy in a 5-year extension study(opens in new tab)
Annals of the Rheumatic DiseasesNovember 21, 2008
Norihiro NishimotoJ Azuma
Interleukin-6 in rheumatoid arthritis(opens in new tab)
Current Opinion in RheumatologyApril 4, 2006
The efficacy and tolerability of newer biologics in rheumatoid arthritis: best current evidence(opens in new tab)
Current Opinion in RheumatologyApril 7, 2007
The therapy of autoimmune diseases by anti-interleukin-6 receptor antibody(opens in new tab)
Expert Opinion on Biological TherapyJune 7, 2005
Japan College of Rheumatology 2009 guidelines for the use of tocilizumab, a humanized anti-interleukin-6 receptor monoclonal antibody, in rheumatoid arthritis(opens in new tab)
Modern RheumatologyJuly 11, 2009
Ryuji KoikeNobuyuki Miyasaka
Interleukin-6 receptor inhibition with tocilizumab reduces disease activity in rheumatoid arthritis with inadequate response to disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs: the tocilizumab in combination with traditional disease-modifying antirheumatic drug therapy study(opens in new tab)
Arthritis and RheumatismSeptember 30, 2008
Tocilizumab: blockade of interleukin-6 signaling pathway as a therapeutic strategy for inflammatory disorders(opens in new tab)
Drugs of TodayOctober 10, 2006
Therapeutic benefit of blocking interleukin-6 activity with an anti-interleukin-6 receptor monoclonal antibody in rheumatoid arthritis: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, dose-escalation trial(opens in new tab)
Arthritis and RheumatismDecember 17, 2002
E H ChoyG S Panayi
Cytokine profiles in bipolar affective disorder: focus on acutely ill patients(opens in new tab)
Journal of Affective DisordersJanuary 18, 2006
Sinead M O'BrienTimothy G Dinan
Newer biological agents in rheumatoid arthritis: impact on health-related quality of life and productivity(opens in new tab)
Intravital Two-Photon Imaging of Neutrophil Recruitment Reveals an Efficacy of FPR1 Blockade To Attenuate the Hepatic Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury - ATC Abstracts
Transplantation and Pediatric Surgery, Kumamoto University, Kumamoto, Japan
Abstract number: C1286
Background: Evidence is accumulating that formyl-peptide receptor (FPR) signaling constitutes an important danger signal that guide neutrophils to sites of inflammation. This study aimed to investigate in vivo real-time neutrophil recruitment using two-photon laser-scanning microscopy (TPLSM) in response to FPR1 blockade during hepatic ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury.
Methods: Male LysM-eGFP mice (neutrophil: eGFPhi) were subjected to 60 min of 70% partial warm hepatic I/R. They were pretreated with 50 Μg FPR1 antagonist cyclosporine H (CsH) or vehicle 30 min before ischemia. Mice received intravenous injection of TRITC-albumin just prior to imaging for visualizing the microvasculature. Left lateral lobe of the liver was imaged 6 h after I/R using an upright microscope (BX61; Olympus) and an FV1000MPE laser-scanning microscope system. In each group (n=5/group), 10-minute videos were recorded at low (×10) or high (×25) magnification. For in vitro study, blood and liver samples were collected 6 h after reperfusion.
Results: At low magnification, 4-6 hepatic lobules were visualized. The number of adherent neutrophils per field of view in CsH-treated I/R group was lower than that in non-treated I/R group (321.4 ± 40.9 vs. 630.8 ± 106.3, p<0.05). Time-lapse imaging revealed the reduction of their crawling velocity in CsH-treated group (3.84 ± 0.17 vs. 4.74 ± 0.20 Μm/min, p<0.001). High magnification images could reveal patchy distribution of non-perfused (necrotic) areas. In CsH-treated group, the number and crawling velocity of neutrophil in non-perfused area were significantly lower compared to non-treated group (Figure 1). CsH treatment decreased sALT levels, as compared with no treatment (9,434 ± 2,856 vs. 16,902 ± 2,595 U/L, p<0.05). These findings were correlated with histological damage of the liver.
Conclusions: TPLSM was a powerful tool for investigating the dynamic mechanism of hepatic I/R injury from the biological aspect. Using TPLSM, it was revealed that blockade of FPR1 signaling attenuated hepatic I/R injury by inhibiting neutrophil recruitment, in particular, in non-perfused area.
Honda M, Takeichi T, Asonuma K, Inomata Y. Intravital Two-Photon Imaging of Neutrophil Recruitment Reveals an Efficacy of FPR1 Blockade To Attenuate the Hepatic Ischemia-Reperfusion Injury [abstract]. Am J Transplant. 2013; 13 (suppl 5). https://atcmeetingabstracts.com/abstract/intravital-two-photon-imaging-of-neutrophil-recruitment-reveals-an-efficacy-of-fpr1-blockade-to-attenuate-the-hepatic-ischemia-reperfusion-injury/. Accessed May 7, 2021.
Online Pharmacies: Dangerous Prescription? - CBS News
May 31, 2008 / 9:06 AM / CBS
Many of us get them every day: e-mails offering popular prescription drugs online at discount prices.
You may toss them into the spam file, but millions of Americans buy what they're selling - and could be putting themselves in danger, says Early Show medical contributor Dr. Mallika Marshall.
Why are so many people turning to the Internet for prescription drugs? More and more people are finding themselves without health insurance coverage, unable to afford the expensive drugs they need, and the Web appears to offer a cheaper alternative, Marshall explains.
But keep in mind, the Food and Drug Administration says, if you ask for generics, chances are you'll pay less at the drug store than you will if you order brand names online.
Then there are people who say they're too embarrassed or too busy to get to the doctor, and that buying online is easier and more private. But that creates another serious problem: People are looking to the Internet to diagnose their own illnesses, then searching for the recommended drugs online, leaving doctors completely out of the equation - a very dangerous practice.
There've been some truly terrible stories about the consequences of buying drugs from Web sites, Marshall points out. One man who was suffering from severe back pain received an e-mail offering Xanax and Ultam, two pain-killers. He took one of each tablet, suffered a heart attack and went into a coma. The tablets contained four times the usual starting dosage. A woman who decided she suffered from chronic fatigue syndrome bought steroids online, and ended up with severe cataracts, so severe they couldn't be removed. We're hearing more and more stories like this.
In some cases, the problem is the pills are either placebos, made of sugar with only a minimal amount of the drug in them. But some have been found to contain other substances that are dangerous, even potentially deadly. One offshore drugmaker was manufacturing Viagra tablets that were 85-percent cement. There are reports of Viagra that is actually made of vodka. Allergy medications were found to contain steroids, to suppress the symptoms. You just don't know what these counterfeit pills may be made of.
How can you tell the difference between a legit site and an unregulated, rogue one?
Most national drugstore chains, such as CVS or Walgreens, have their own Web sites, and they are completely legitimate, Marshall notes. Most Canadian sites are considered safe, as they are regulated by that government. But sites you become aware of from unsolicited, spam e-mails, could be operating offshore and be completely unregulated. Stay away from them.
ADVICE FROM MARSHALL FOR PEOPLE SHOPPING ONLINE FOR DRUGS
We can't say it strongly enough. Don't diagnose your own illness and prescribe your own care. See a doctor, and get a prescription.
AVOID SITES THAT DON'T INSIST ON A PRESCRIPTION
Many of those sites will ask for a doctor's name and nothing else. A recent study showed that only 11 percent of online pharmacy sites ask for a prescription. Most will send you the prescription drugs with no prescription. The site should ask for a prescription, should post its name and address, and have a licensed pharmacist you can speak to. If it doesn't, stay away.
ONLY USE LICENSED ONLINE PHARMACIES
To be sure it's licensed, you can check with the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy in your state. They license online pharmacies, and can tell you if the site you're looking at is safe.
AVOID SITES BASED IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES
There are sites based in places such as Belize, Thailand or China, and you don't know where the drugs are coming from, or whether they're counterfeit. That's where the danger lies, so you must be careful.
Glossary | Research Services | Creighton University
Adverse Event: Complications or drug side effects that may occur during the research study. An anticipated adverse event is known to occur from past experience with the treatment. An unanticipated adverse event is an unexpected complication. These events may or may not be related to your participation in the research study, and will be closely monitored and recorded by the Principal Investigator.
Assent: Acknowledgement from a child that they want to participate in a research study. Assent is obtained from children older than 7 years of age (where possible) and permission is obtained from the child's parent(s) or legal guardian(s).
Bias: Factors, such as human choice or opinion, that may affect the results of the study when, in reality, these factors are not related to the treatment under study.
Blinded: An approach to avoid bias, when a researcher and/or study participant is not aware of whether the study participant is on the drug being studied or a placebo.
Clinical Trial: A carefully controlled and developed study or research study designed to test and evaluate new drugs or treatment plans.
Clinical Research: Medical research that may involve patients and sometimes healthy volunteers. These research studies are designed to uncover better ways to treat, prevent, diagnose, and understand human disease. Sometimes they help patients feel or get better but sometimes they don't. In rare cases, the studies can make patients worse.
Cognitive Impairment: Reduction in mental functioning and ability to carry out tasks that require thinking, planning, and memory. This may include those who use drugs or alcohol, suffer from a disease that affects the brain, are terminally ill, and have severe physical handicaps. These groups of people may not be able to make decisions in their best interest.
Confidentiality: Refers to how the information that a research participant has given to the investigators is handled; this information is normally given with the expectation that it will not be given to others without the participant's permission.
Identifiable Private Information: Information that can identify an individual, including: name, birth date, Social Security number, address, telephone number, email address, computer ID, and others.
Inclusion/Exclusion Criteria: The predetermined criteria that are used to select the correct participants for the study. These include the presence or absence of certain conditions, medications, or physical characteristics.
Informed Consent: The dialogue between potential participants and researchers that takes place before anyone decides whether to take part in a study. This process of communication should be free of pressure or rushing, should include all key information, and a chance to ask questions and have them answered. Informed consent can be more than just a one-time conversation. As a study goes on, participants can renew their agreement to be in the study, and they can also decide to quit without penalty. The important thing is open and clear communication. This process includes signing an Informed Consent Form that describes the risks and benefits that may occur if the person decides to take part in the study.
Informed Consent Form (ICF): The form participants sign to agree to be in the study. The ICF includes details about the study, such as its purpose, duration, required procedures, risk, benefits, and who to contact for further information. Sometimes, a signature is not needed, but participants may still keep a copy of the ICF. In these cases it may be called an Information Sheet instead, but the contents are the same. The ICF is not a contract. Participants do not give up any legal rights by signing an ICF. Participants are free to withdraw at any time.
Institutional Review Board (IRB): A group of scientists, doctors, and lay persons who review each clinical research study before it starts to ensure that the study is well-designed, does not involve unnecessary risks, and ensures the safety of participants.
Investigator: A scientist who is working on a research study to answer certain questions, test a theory, or explore a new area in hopes of designing a future study. Also called a researcher.
National Institutes of Health (NIH): An agency within the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services that provides funding for research and conducts studies.
Oral Consent: Written information that describes what will be told to research participants who cannot read or feel uncomfortable signing forms for cultural reasons.
Parent/Guardian Permission: This form is signed by parents/legal guardians in order to allow children to participate in a study. For children 7 and older, an assent form is also provided to the child.
Phases: The steps of a clinical trial. Usually describes the type of study and is an indication of the degree of knowledge that has been obtained on the drug.
Placebo: An inactive substance that may resemble an active drug but has no medical value.
Principal Investigator (PI): The chief researcher on a study. The PI is responsible for everything that takes place in a study.
Protected Health Information (PHI): Health information that can identify an individual, including: name, birth date, Social Security number, address, telephone number, email address, computer ID, medical record number, and others.
Research: An organized way of finding out about something. Most scientists conduct research, but not all research involves human volunteers. Most research is done with the hope of learning something valuable enough to share with others by publishing articles in scientific journals. Research can turn up both expected and unexpected results. Research usually involves some sort of risk-taking, whether small or great.
Research Study: This is a kind of study that is developed to answer a basic question on any subject, such as testing a new drug or treatment or comparing commonly used interventions.
Research Participants (or Research Subjects): The participants in a research study. These individuals voluntarily agree to participate in the study.
Risk versus Benefit: A comparison of the risks involved for the research participants and whether the expected benefits justify those risks.
Social-Behavioral: Involving the social sciences, the formal study of societies and human behavior. The areas of anthropology, sociology, psychology, religion, and political science are examples of disciplines that may conduct research of this kind. Common ways of collecting information include surveys, focus groups, interviews, and observing behavior in a specially designed setting.
Sponsor: The organization that oversees and pays for the study or provides in-kind support (like medications). This can be a single person, a charitable foundation, a medical institution, a drug-making company, or a federal agency like the National Institutes of Health or Department of Defense.
Unanticipated Problem: Any problem that happens during a study that is related to the research and was not predicted to happen.
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA): A department in the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. The FDA ensures the safety of prescription and non-prescription drugs and medical devices in the United States, including those that are being tested by research studies and clinical trials.
