They say that pain can easily be resolved, but itch is one of situations wherein scratching is the only to take care of it. But what if scratching the itch can only worsen the circumstances, for instance, what if the itching is caused by plants like poison ivy, oak or sumac? Then we can say that poison oak rash cannot be simply relieved by scratching; what is needed is poison oak treatment which can be medical, natural or homemade.
Focusing on medical treatments for poison oak rash, these usually are medicines which can either be bought over the counter or with prescription. It is important to be reminded of the situations wherein you might need prescription drugs, especially if the rashes are very severe already. However, over-the-counter drugs can be bought for temporary relief from the itch.
Over-the-counter drugs are among the best bought items because they are used by campers, hikers, and people who are exposed to poison ivy, oak or sumac. Some people purchase OTC poison ivy treatment for prevention or immediate application if they think they are exposed to the resin called urushiol which causes the blisters.
Some examples of OTC drugs and creams are Itch-X, Zanfel and Caladryl. They are simply applied over the areas of exposure or blisters and they provide instant relief.
Prescription drugs are among the strongest and potent drugs that a doctor can provide. Prescription drugs cannot be bought without a medical prescription because they are harmful if take n excessively. In some cases, the excessive use of poison oak treatments which are prescription drugs can promote scarring on the skin.
Some examples of prescription medications are Diprolene AF, Prednisone and Deltasone. In case they are taken in or applied in excess, there might be some serious health issues or scarring on the skin.
People who are suffering from poison ivy, oak or sumac allergies can be cured even without having to go to the doctor or buy creams and lotions for the blisters. However, the itch can be relieved by these drugs and medication and they can even speed up the healing process of the skin. It is good to have a physician look at the allergies so as to be presented with the best treatment available.
A chemical is a substance with a consistent composition and are one of the building blocks of our planet. We count on many different substances on a daily basis for many different functions, such as consumption and cleaning. Chemical substances are made through a variety of processes, some are naturally occurring while others are byproducts of reactions or it is manufactured.
However, there are chemical substances that can potentially cause harm to ourselves in certain amounts. We are exposed to chemicals through the air, water, and soil. The environmental impact varies depending on the amount of the chemical, the level of exposure, and the way the chemical is released.
Environmental toxicity is the study of the presence of toxicants in our local environment through various sources. Monitoring toxicity levels is essential to maintain our ecosystems and ensure our overall health.
Using either the Muta-LabTM, Toxi-LabTM, or Geno-LabTM high school biotechnology kits, students will learn the effects of chemicals in organisms or the environment through the study of the toxic effects of chemicals, organic compounds, hydrocarbons, and metals in certain forms and doses on life.
Muta-LabTM: The Muta-LabTM high school biotechnology kit is a bacterial based assay that tests for mutagenicity. The kit is based on the Ames test which is the gold standard to examine the potential of mutations in human genetics. Our kits use a genetically modified strain of E.coli or Salmonella which allow students to understand the process of how mutations occur as well as understand the underlining experimental design and observation.
Geno-LabTM: The Geno-LabTM high school biotechnology kit is based on genetically engineered E.coli, which measures the primary response of a cell to genetic damage. In just a few hours, the kit provides a clear, completely objective measurement of the genotoxicity of a sample by a simple visual qualitative evaluation of the degree of DNA damage the cell experiences by observing the colour obtained.
How Googling your health questions just got easier and more reliable - cruisewhat
You're sick. Your head is pounding, the sunlight is too bright, you're nauseated and vomiting and feeling very sorry for yourself.
What do you do? You grab your smartphone and through blurred vision you Google 'migraine'.
When we're sick, when our children develop a strange red rash or when we catch a news story about a lactose intolerant cow, we start Googling, and Google knows it knows it.
For the first time Google has launched health condition cards in Australia, designed to answer users' health-related questions, queries and curiosities.
"Starting today when Australians search for common health conditions, such as asthma, they will start to see health cards appear in their search results," Ms Solaqua said.
"These health cards are meant to provide basic information about health conditions and a framework to help users dive deeper across the web and do deeper research as well as to have more informed conversations with their doctors," Ms Solaqua said.
The feature was developed with the expertise of US-based medical doctors led by Google's Dr Kapil Parakh, a cardiologist, and Mayo Clinic doctors who compiled, curated and reviewed the most relevant and accurate health facts.
The health cards are sources of information only, Ms Solaqua stressed. They are not a diagnostic tool and cannot replace a face-to-face consultation with a flesh-and-blood doctor. It's advice that is clearly visible on the cards.
"Everybody should be concerned when people are not getting the healthcare they need or have a right to access," Ms Solaqua said.
"What we can see is that people are going to the internet to look for information.
"Instead of trying to pretend that that isn't a problem and that people aren't finding bad information on the internet, what the health cards are meant to do is provide accurate and reliable information created in a partnership with medical doctors and to make sure there is a source of information online that people can trust," she said.
The feature's success is in stark contrast to the failed Google Health venture, an online personal health record system launched in 2008 that didn't catch on.
Australian doctors are cautiously welcoming of Google's forays into the health space.
"There is a lot of potential here," said Dr Nathan Pinskier, chairman of the Royal Australian College of General Practitioners' e-health and technology committee.
"There is no question people need to be able to access reliable health information. The question becomes what makes a difference to patient health at the end of the day?" he said.
"We just don't know. We need to have a watch-and-wait approach with these things," he said.
Dr Pinskier reiterated Google's stance.
"Nothing beats face-to-face consultations with medical practitioners," he said. "It's what we've been trained to do."
National Study Shows Magnesium Sulfate Reduces Risk of Cerebral Palsy in Premat... (e has beenchosen by Chicagoans as their ...)HomeBiologyMedicineTechnologyProductsNewsDefinitionDictionaryMoviesLinksSearchRSSNavigation LinksBiology NewsMedicine NewsBiology ProductsMedicine ProductsBiology DefinitionMedicine DefinitionBiology TechnologyMedicine TechnologyBiology DictionaryMedicine DictionaryHOME >> MEDICINE >> TECHNOLOGYNational Study Shows Magnesium Sulfate Reduces Risk of Cerebral Palsy in Premature Birthse has beenchosen by Chicagoans as their most preferred hospital according to theNational Research Corporation's annual survey. http://www.bio-medicine.org/inc/biomed/medicine-technology.asp http://feeds.bio-medicine.org/latest-medical-technologyDate:8/27/2008 e has been
'/>"/>SOURCE Northwestern Memorial HospitalCopyright©2008 PR Newswire.All rights reserved0GOODPage: 1 2 3 Related medicine technology :1. National Healthcare for Homeless Day: August 13th, 20082. Ardea Biosciences Presents Phase 2a Antiviral Activity Data for Lead HIV Candidate, RDEA806 at XVII International AIDS Conference3. Landmark HIV/AIDS Publication Launches at International AIDS Society Conference in Mexico City4. Medivation Presents Positive New Data on Dimebons Long-Term Efficacy and Novel Mechanism of Action at the International Conference on Alzheimers Disease5. Anavex presents neuroprotective effects of Anavex 1-41 at the International Conference on Alzheimers Disease 20086. HIV Prevention Expert Dr. Timothy Mastro Speaks on Future of Pre-Exposure Prophylaxis at International AIDS Conference7. Groundbreaking American Journal of Play from Strong National Museum of Play(R) Premiers July 20088. Online Coverage of International AIDS Conference Includes Daily Webcasts, Podcasts and Interviews9. Sonablate(R) International HIFU Registry is the First Worldwide HIFU Clinical Registry for Prostate Cancer Treatments10. Pharmasset Announces Initiation of Combination Study of Clevudine and Viread(R) for HBV by French National Agency for Research on AIDS and Viral Hepatitis (ANRS)11. International Team Locates Key Player in Muscle Regeneration
Shopping Sample – Page 56 – shopping experience and become a leader in retail, entertainment and attractions.
All You More About Stem Cell Treatment Facilities Steps cell therapy has become one of the best discoveries of this age because of how many people are benefiting from this… [Continue Reading]
Best Ways That One to Choose a Water Well Service Do you know the right procedure that can aid in choosing a reputable Water Well Service? If you have ever… [Continue Reading]
The Qualities to Evaluate When Looking For The Right Commercial Elevator Services Expert When looking for a commercial elevator services expert, it is critical to ensure that you hire the… [Continue Reading]
Factors to Consider When Hiring Elevator Repair Services from the Best Company Elevators equipment is one of the things that you should install in your business for its compliments. When… [Continue Reading]
The Health Advantages Of Stem Cell Treatment Because of the scientists and physicians who have explored the use of stem cells for a greater range of ailments, injuries, and diseases,… [Continue Reading]
MONTRÉAL, February 23, 2015 – CHU Sainte-Justine, a leader in mother-child health research affiliated to Université de Montréal, is proud to announce the 2nd Canadian National Perinatal Research Meeting (CNPRM), which will be held from February 24th to 27th, 2015 at Fairmont Le Château Montebello in Montebello, Québec. Organized this year by CHU Sainte-Justine and its researchers, the CNPRM will bring together Canadian and international experts and leaders in perinatal research and clinical care to highlight the latest advances in the field of perinatal health.
The program will address timely and challenging issues pertaining to mother and newborn health, including: Can monitoring of the mother’s immune system contribute to a healthy pregnancy? What is the role of ethnicity on gestational diabetes? Can we prevent postpartum depression? What are the therapeutic avenues using cell therapy to prevent or cure organ injury in extreme premature infants? How does intensive care impact infants and their family? What is the cardiovascular burden for premature infants and their offspring?
The CNPRM serves as an opportunity for some 300 practitioners, researchers and trainees to present and share their latest findings in the field of maternal, fetal and neonatal health, and facilitates a unique blend of interdisciplinary discussions and collaborations over a variety of topics. For more information, see the program on the web site www.cnprm.org.
The Sainte-Justine University Hospital Research Center is a leading mother-child research institution affiliated with Université de Montréal. It brings together more than 200 researchers and 350 graduate and post-graduate students focused on finding innovative prevention means, faster and less invasive treatments, as well as personalized approaches to medicine. The Center is part of CHU Sainte-Justine, which is the largest mother-child center in Canada. More on: chusj.org
In this patient, I wanted to use Jardiance but the patient’s insurance company told me that I must use Steglatro, which, in my opinion, has much less supporting scientific data than Jardiance, and is a medication I have never used.
In the past, physicians were taught to learn 2–3 medicines in each “class” and limit their prescribing habits to the medicines they know well. This ensured that the physician could optimize the risk/benefit ratio for each patient.
As a result of the restricted medication formularies, our healthcare system now forces the physician to choose between three undesirable options.
ask the insurance company to allow the patient to take the prescribed medicine at a reduced price, which rarely works and takes the clinical staff away from direct patient care.
So far, we have only talked about one disease, diabetes. Imagine the level of frustration the physician experiences when they are dealing with many, many diseases and each has several different classes of medications with many medicines within each class.
In the end, the physician is really given no option but to prescribe a medication whose risk/benefit ratio they may not be able to fully assess or have never used.
June 15 2021, 2.30pm
Perth and Kinross families will be offered a summer of play, thanks to almost £400,000 of Scottish Government funding.
The £397,000 will help youngsters and families most affected by the pandemic to get together through constructive activities such as sport, family fun and food.
It comes as part of efforts to help young people to improve their mental health as Scotland emerges from lockdown.
And young people will be asked what kind of activities they enjoy before the full programme is drawn up.
Perth and Kinross Council received the funding – a share of £20 million allocated to local authorities and groups across Scotland – to implement the scheme.
'Range of activities'
The council says the funding will be used to offer youngsters the chance to take part in activities they can enjoy.
A spokesperson for the local authority said: "Education & Children's Services welcomes its share of the £20 million Scottish Government funding for the 'Summer of play'.
"The funding will be targeted to help provide a range of activities for children, young people and their families over the summer who have been most affected by the pandemic.
"We have planned a range of activities in partnership with different providers, who in turn have asked children and young people what kind of things they would most enjoy taking part in.
"These include a mix of sporting activities, social opportunities, outdoor activities, family fun and food activities as well as some packages for particular individuals or families. Transport costs associated with some of the activities will also be provided."
It is hoped the activities will help young people with their mental health.
It comes after one Perth and Kinross mental health charity saw a "marked increase" in the number of youngsters reaching out for support.
Jim Fairlie MSP, who represents Perthshire South and Kinross-shire, said: "It is great news that nearly £400,000 of it is coming to Perth & Kinross and I look forward to seeing the benefits of it here in my constituency.
"There is no doubt that the pandemic has hit many of our young folk particularly hard and investing in summer activities in this way is an important part of investing in their mental health."
Education Secretary Shirley-Anne Somerville. Picture: Fraser Bremner/Daily Mail/PA Wire.
"They have told us that their mental health was a primary concern as a result of the pandemic and that they need a range of activity to help them reconnect with their peers and friends."
The Good Fats You Need and How to Get Them | DS-R Blog
Fat gets a lot of attention these days, and though it may seem contrary to what you've always believed about it, it can actually be good for you. For a long time, it was thought by major health organizations that the key to a healthy life is a low-fat diet (hence the food pyramid of the '90s which recommended 6-11 servings of carbs, and fats to be used "sparingly").(1)
Today, these same organizations have updated their stance on fats – concluding that many of them provide necessary nutrients to our bodies and diets. Plus, if you're trying to lose or manage your weight, fat can actually be a welcome ally in your efforts – making high-fat diets increasingly popular.
It may seem strange that fat performs important functions in your body, but it does! As one of the three major macronutrients in your diet (the other two being protein and carbs), fat is essential for a number of functions: (2)
Eating these fats often can lead to higher overall cholesterol levels, and increase the "bad", or harmful LDL cholesterol in your body – which could cause blockages in the arteries in your heart and elsewhere in your body. For this reason, reducing the amount of saturated fats in your diet is thought to lower your risk of heart disease. (4) To learn more about cholesterol and your health, read this article on high cholesterol.
For increased health, you want to replace a lot of the food sources that include saturated fats with those that have unsaturated fats – considered healthy fats. You can spot many unsaturated fats because they're liquid at room temperature.
Both monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fats help reduce blood pressure, raising "good", HDL cholesterol in the body and lowering triglycerides, lowering your risk of heart disease. Although both omega-3 and omega-6 fats are important for health, recent research shows that maintaining a proper ratio between them is the most important aspect of all. (5)
Though they provide benefits, omega-6 fats are also inflammatory, and compete with omega-3s in the body. In addition, the average diet in the US and many other Western countries skews towards high amounts of omega-6 fats (found in oils used in many processed foods like candy, cookies, crackers, pizza and popcorn), instead of the more healthful omega-3s.
TRANS FATS – AVOID THESE COMPLETELY
Trans fats are the worst type of fat – but luckily you don't have to worry about them much anymore in the US because the FDA ordered them removed from packaged foods and restaurants in June, 2018.
Eating these types of fats increases the levels of "bad" LDL cholesterol in your body and decreases the amount of "good" HDL cholesterol – a condition which is a major risk factor for heart disease. In addition, research has linked the consumption of trans fats to major issues such as chronic inflammation, increased risk of insulin resistance and type 2 diabetes, and behavior problems. (6)
Recommended Daily Servings for Fats
Eating fat will not make you fat! In fact, fat is a completely vital and downright necessary part of your daily diet. Your body depends on fats for a number of different functions, and you should consider them (especially MUFAs and PUFAs including abundant omega-3s), a potent source of increased vitality in your life.
Research progress and stress-induced variation of DNA methylation in plants. Philip Frost, a biotech billionaire and the former chairman of Teva, agreed to a proposed settle [ Sodium acetate responses in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the ubiquitin ligase Rsp5. Advances and prospects of taxol biosynthesis by endophytic fungi. Journal of Biotec [ The promoter toolbox for recombinant gene expression in trichoderma reesei.
Stocks quotes in this article: An overview of recent developments in biomass pyrolysis technologies. Go to Source Author: Current developments and future detection challenges in food and feed chain.
Few small to [ Biomimetic delivery of signals for bone tissue engineering.
Biocides used as additives to biodiesels and their risks to the environment and public health: Microbial fuel cells, related technologies, and axi, applications. Effect of once-weekly dulaglutide on glycated haemoglobin HbA1c and fasting blood glucose in patient subpopulations by gender, duration of diabetes and baseline HbA1c.
Global challenges faced by axi Bacillus thuringiensis Cry genes in soybean Glycine max L. Acute Tibial osteomyelitis caused by intraosseous access during initial resuscitation: Wildcard and Advanced Technology.
Antibacterial peptides in dermatology—strategies for evaluation of allergic potential. Securities and Exchange Commission. Big Pharma is taking a growing footprint on the Peninsula.
Recent patents in agricultural biotechnology; Focus on health. The Language of Biosimilars: Antibody fragments and antibody mimics for targeted drug delivery.
Related Articles Glycaemic control and hypoglycaemia in people with type 2 diabetes switching from t [ Metabolic engineering of Pichia pastoris.
Improving immunotherapy through glycodesign. Sort by Relevance Newest axom Oldest first. An update on enzymatic cocktails for lignocellulose breakdown. Biosimilar Drugs for Psoriasis: Related Articles Comparative efficacy and safety of gemigliptin versus linagliptin in type 2 diabete [ Journal of Biotec [ One Century of Bioenergy in Germany: Research progress and stress-induced variation of DNA methylation in plants.
Brunton Hunting X 43 Full Size Epoch Roof Prism Binocular (Black) – video dailymotion
Advances in designing and developing vaccines, drugs and therapeutic approaches to counter human papilloma virus. Recent update on methodologies for extraction and analysis of soybean seed proteins.
Methods, mechanisms, and effects. Molecular Therapy – [ Ethical and islamic perspectives of biotechnology research and human consumption of genetically modified organisms. The Daily Biotech Pulse:
