When investigating for neoplasm, mucoceles may also be visible on ultrasound. They appear as an ovoid cystic mass with variable echogenicity. Typically they will have concentric echogenic layers (“onion skin”), acoustic shadowing from mural calcifications, and the appendix will be pear-shaped. They can also demonstrate regional adenopathy, fat stranding, and free fluid.[2][6][8]
Imaging of the appendix is the vast majority of the time, for the investigation of acute appendicitis. The use of imaging for appendiceal neoplasms, though less commonly done, does have high sensitivity and specificity. If the patient is having symptoms, the accuracy is improved further; these can be symptoms of acute appendicitis (which is most common), abdominal pain, palpable mass, obstruction, or distension. The imaging study can be used to not only diagnose the tumor, but it can also be used to stage the tumor in the classic TNM staging system. The staging typically takes place via MRI. These studies more often identify epithelial tumors, not NETs, due to the very small size and nonaggressive behavior of NETs. Overall, the definitive diagnosis of neoplasms requires pathologic examination after appendectomy.
On the other hand, appendicitis is regularly diagnosed with radiology studies. In fact, imaging is often the deciding factor between operative and non-operative management. Though the diagnosis can be clinical following a thorough history and physical, imaging is regularly employed to confirm. The most commonly used radiographic study is the CT scan, given its speed, sensitivity, and specificity. Though MRI and US are also very reliable ways to diagnose acute appendicitis, they have their limitations. Ultrasound is highly operator dependent and tends to work best on individuals with less fat and muscle content in their abdomen (i.e., children). MRI is not always readily available, especially in smaller hospitals or rural settings. It is also a more prolonged study, and it may be more difficult for patients to be still while they are in acute pain, especially in children. Currently, the negative appendectomy is less than 10% in men, but can be up to 20% in women; accurate imaging studies could reduce the number of unnecessary surgeries performed on patients. It is, therefore, essential to know which study will provide the clinician with the most accurate information for their specific clinical scenario.[1][7]
On 20 April 2019, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress ("NPC") held a second deliberation meeting to discuss the Draft Amendments to Drug Administration Law ("Second Draft DAL Amendments"). A week later, the Second Draft DAL Amendments were published for public comments until 25 May 2019.
It is believed that one of the triggering events that prompted the Drug Administration Law Amendments is the widely reported vaccine scandal: it was revealed in July 2018 that Changsheng Life Sciences had produced inferior rabies vaccines and fabricated false production inspection records. Three months later the National Medical Products Administration ("NMPA") submitted a draft amendment to the Drug Administration Law ("First Draft DAL Amendments") to the NPC for discussion, that draft was soon released for public comments on 1 November 2018 (Please see our analysis of the First Draft DAL Amendments here). Upon receiving feedbacks calling for more substantial and structural revisions of the DAL to accommodate China's medical reform efforts, the Second Draft DAL Amendments propose additional changes with the following highlights:
1. Improving Drug Quality and Strengthening Drug Administration
A general principle provision has been added to indicate that drug administration shall adopt a health-centered approach, and a strict supervision system shall be established to improve drug quality and to ensure safety, efficacy and accessibility of drugs (Article 3).
The Second Draft DAL Amendments also encourage the joint efforts of the government, industry associations and the public to improve drug administration and supervision (Articles 11-13), including:
1. Local governments to take measures to improve the public's general knowledge on drug safety related laws and regulations;
2. Media to promote drug safety awareness and uncover illegal drug-related activities;
3. Drug industry associations to strength industry self-regulation and establish credit system;
4. Local governments to praise or give awards to individuals/companies who make significant contribution to R&D, production, sales and supervision activities of drugs.
2. Encouraging R&D of innovative new drugs and addition of new rules on clinical trial
One of the main objectives of China's medical reform is to encourage clinical value-oriented drug innovation, and this has been incorporated into the Second Draft DAL Amendments (Article 15).
With respect of clinical trial, the Second Draft DAL Amendments require that:
1. All clinical trials shall be conducted in accordance with ethical principles, and the ethics committee shall establish regulations and procedures to ensure independent, objective and fair ethical reviews (Article 18);
2. Informed consent shall be obtained from the test subjects or their guardians after they have been provided with truthful explanation of the clinical trial and the relevant risks (Article 19);
3. Compassionate drug use: if a clinical institution is conducting clinical trial of a drug to treat life-threatening disease with no comparable treatment options, the drug being tested can be available free of charge to other patients with the same conditions in the same clinical trial institution, provided that the drug being tested is likely to have benefits, passed the ethical review and informed consent has been obtained from the patients (Article 20).
3. Market Authorization Holder ("MAH") System
Under the current DAL, only a drug manufacturer can obtain drug market authorization approval from the NMPA. In November 2015, China's State Council launched a 3-year pilot project to implement an enhanced MAH system in 10 provinces/municipalities including Beijing, Shanghai, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Guangdong etc. Under this pilot project, the scope of MAH was extended from drug manufacturers to include R&D institutes and individual researchers, the MAH can commission a qualified manufacturer or distributor for production/sales of the drugs and shall be responsible for the safety and efficacy of the drugs. All these measures had been adopted in the First Draft DAL Amendments.
In October 2018, the State Council released a report[i] on implementation of the pilot project, under which they found that the market launch time of a drug can be reduced by 22 months on average if a MAH uses contract manufacturing, as it saves the time of a MAH (normally a drug R&D institute) for registration of a drug production company, building production facilities and obtaining GMP certification. The pilot project has also incentivized MA application of new drugs: 734 MA applications for new drugs were filed in 2017 with a YoY growth rate of 31.5%, of which 334 were innovative new drug applications (YoY growth rate 24.2%) and 90 applications were innovative biological products (YoY growth rate 109.3%). The report also revealed some issues, for example the MAH's responsibility at different stages of the drug life-cycle management process required further clarification; The pilot project has only been implemented for 3 years, but quite a portion of the MA applications received by the local drug administration involved in the pilot project require a longer time for granting the MA approval. Accordingly, the NPC decided to extend the implementation of the pilot project for one more year to further evaluate the MAH system.
Against the above backdrop, the Second Draft DAL Amendments further propose the following:
1. It further clarifies that the MAH shall be responsible for the non-clinical research, clinical trial, production and sales, post-market research, adverse reaction monitoring, reporting and handling of drugs, specifically:
- It requires MAH to establish drug quality assurance system and have drug quality personnel to be independently responsible for drug quality control (Article 27);
- It also requires MAH to sign quality assurance agreements with their contract manufacturers, distributors for drug production, sales, storage and transportation etc. MAH shall also conduct regular review of the quality control system of their contract manufacturers/distributors to provide assurance of continued capability of quality management (Articles 26, 27, 30 and 31);
- It imposes an obligation on the MAH to implement drug product post-market risk management plan, which requires the MAH to conduct post-market research and adverse reaction monitoring (Articles 72 and 74).
2. It allows MAH to transfer their MA approval documents to a third party upon NMPA's permission, provided that the transferee has the capability of performing the obligations of a MAH, including the obligations of drug safety assurance, quality control, risk management and compensation liabilities (Article 36). This appears to be China's measure to optimize the structure of the pharmaceutical industry. In the pilot project, there have been attempts to encourage subsidiaries of sizable pharmaceutical group to transfer their MA approvals to their parent company, in that way the parent company can properly allocate resources based on the production capacity of their subsidiaries and be responsible for quality of the products marketed by their subsidiaries[ii].
4. Conditional MA approval of drugs for an urgent public health need
According to the Second Draft DLA Amendments, for drugs to treat serious life threatening disease with no comparable treatment options and drugs for an urgent public health need, a conditional MA approval can be granted if mid-stage clinical data can predict clinical benefits (Article 23).
It also requires that the MAH shall take risk management measures for conditional approved drugs and the relevant R&D for the drug shall be completed within the designated period stated in the MA approval. The NMPA has the power to withdraw the MA approval for conditional approved drugs if the R&D cannot be completed within the time limit or it has been confirmed that the risks of the drug outweigh its benefits (Article 77).
5. Blocking online sales of prescription drugs via third party platform
In response to the regulatory and drug safety challenges in the rapidly expanding E-Pharmacy market, the Second Draft DAL Amendments propose (Article 58):
1. Any drug online sales third party platform shall be recorded with the local drug administration;
2. Drug online sales third party platforms has the obligation to check the qualifications of MAH or drug distributors who intends to conduct online drug sales via the platform;
3. If the MAH/drug distributors' online sales activities via the third party platform violate the law, the third party platform shall immediately take measures to stop the illegal activities and report to the local drug administration;
4. MAH/drug distributors are prohibited to provide online sales of prescription drugs via a third party platform.
Under the current regulatory regime, companies who can provide online medication transaction services to consumers are only allowed to sell non-prescription drugs i.e. OTCs in China. The Second Draft DAL Amendments further tighten the regulation on this area, which caused a lot of debate during the NPC deliberation meeting. The majority of NPC representatives were of the opinion that it is impractical to rule out all possibilities of online sales of prescription drugs, the key is to what extent this should be allowed. There has been suggestion that a negative list can be provided to prohibit e.g. narcotic drugs, psychotropic drugs to be sold online. Others called for improvement on the management system of prescription drugs and non-prescription drugs, and online sales of prescription drugs could be allowed, e.g. if prescription issued by a qualified medical practitioner is provided and the prescription records shall be kept by the platform for two years.
6. Tackling the problems of high drug prices and drug shortages
The relevant measures suggested by the Second Draft DAL Amendments include:
1. The State will monitor drug prices, conduct surveys on cost when necessary, strengthen drug price supervision and inspection, investigate and punish drug price violations in accordance with the law (Article 78);
2. An early warning system of drugs in short supply shall be established (Articles 88 and 89);
3. Priority review and approval can be granted to drugs in short supply (Art 90);
4. The State Council has the power to limit or prohibit the exportation of drugs in short supply. If necessary, the State Council can take appropriate measures such as price control or importation of drugs to ensure the drug supply (Article 91);
5. MAH, drug manufacturers and drug distributors have the social obligation to ensure the production and supply of drugs (Article 92).
In recent years, China has been taking a series of actions to lower drug price, including conducting price negotiations with domestic and foreign drug manufacturers to add more anti-cancer drugs into the basic medical insurance reimbursement list[iii], removal of import tariffs on anti-cancer drugs and reducing the VAT for certain rare disease drugs[iv], etc.
7. Penalties of violation and punitive damages
In addition to illegal activities of drug manufacturing and drug sales, the Second Draft DAL Amendments also provide that the relevant parties could be subject to administrative penalties if:
1. A MAH, a drug manufacturer, a drug distributor or a medical institution fails to monitor or report adverse drug reactions (Article 118);
2. Where the MAH is an overseas company, its representative office or designated business entity in China fails to fulfill its MAH obligations in accordance with the law (Article 121);
3. A third-party platform for drug online sales fails to perform obligations of qualification examination, reporting illegal acts etc. of the MAH/drug distributor using their services (Article 122);
Furthermore, fabricating and spreading false drug safety information can face administrative penalties and even criminal liabilities if it is a serious violation (Article 138).
The amount of fines in the Second Draft DAL Amendments has been further increased in response to feedbacks on imposing more severe punishment against illegal drug related activities. For example, the fine for unlicensed production and operation of drugs is raised from 2-5 times to 10-30 times of the drug product value. The fine for production and sale of counterfeit drugs is raised from 2-5 times to 15-30 times of the goods value. Meanwhile, the legal representatives, management directly responsible for the production and sale of counterfeit or inferior drugs will be punished and enjoined from drug production and operation for a life time. They can also be pursued with administrative detention or even criminal liabilities. (Articles 109, 110 and 112)
If the production or sale of counterfeit and inferior drugs is a wilful violation and results in death or serious health damage, the victim can claim punitive damages in civil actions. (Article 136)
Compared to the First Draft DAL Amendments, the Second Draft DAL Amendments provide more substantial changes to improve regulation on different stages of drug product life-cycle management by taking into account the experience and achievements of China's medical reform. The Second Draft DAL Amendments have attracted great attention: the NPC website[v] showed 8,443 comments from the public were submitted to NPC for consideration. In accordance with the legislative process, significant amendments to laws will require 3 deliberation meetings by the NPC. Whilst there is no clear indication about the timeframe for the next meeting, we expect that there will be further changes to the draft.
Fort Myers, FL Blog | Counseling & Therapy Services
Common Symptoms of Bipolar Disorder & How to Manage It
Do you or someone you love suffer from extreme mood swings? Do you go through periods of extreme lows and times when you feel as if you're "on top of the world?" When you are feeling on a high, do you engage in risky behaviors…
Insomnia Is Very Treatable With CBT and EMDR Therapy
Have you been struggling with insomnia? Do you find yourself worrying about whether you will be able to fall asleep? Insomnia can become a vicious cycle. If you have tried the basic strategies for falling asleep and you are still experiencing sleepless nights, you might…
Help! I Have Insomnia!
We've all been there, whether it's an occasional sleepless night or chronic insomnia. We go to bed and then lay there for hours wondering if we will ever drift off to sleep. Or maybe you go to sleep fine, but then you wake up at…
Over half of all people with mental illness don't receive help for their disorders. Why is this? Why is there so much stigma around getting mental health assistance? Kinds of Mental Health Stigma According to researchers, mental health stigma falls into several categories. Public Stigma…
Overwhelming Feelings? Learning Emotional Regulation
Are you overwhelmed by your emotions? Do you find yourself overreacting to situations on a regular basis? Do you feel like you are way more sensitive than the average person? If so, you might benefit from learning how to regulate your emotions. It's important to…
Weight Stigma, Nutrition & Physical Disabilities - Nutrition Connections
Home Sector News & Events Events Weight Stigma, Nutrition & Physical Disabilities
People with obesity experience weight stigma not only from friends, family, strangers and the media, but also from healthcare practitioners. Despite good intentions, many healthcare professionals make assumptions about someone's diet or lifestyle based on their weight. This can lead to poorer health, avoidance of healthcare, increased anxiety and low self-esteem. People with both physical disabilities and obesity face unique challenges regarding weight stigma. In this presentation, the presenters highlight client stories regarding weight stigma in the context of physical disabilities and its impact on mental health and nutrition.
Rosemary Romeo (Social Worker, Anne Johnston Health Station-Tobias House Attendant Care) is a registered social worker and psychotherapist currently working at the Anne Johnston Health Station – Tobias House Attendant Care Inc. Rosemary primarily offers mental health / counselling services across all targeted populations which include youth, seniors and barrier-free clients. Over the past 11 years, Rosemary has worked in the mental health sector serving various individuals and groups specifically survivors of domestic violence and sexual assault, refugees, individuals battling substance abuse, and those labeled with complex mental health issues.
Josee Sovinsky (Registered Dietitian, The Anne Johnston Health Station – Tobias House Attendant Care)is a Registered Dietitian who specializes in eating disorders, intuitive eating and community nutrition. She holds an Honours Bachelor in Nutrition Sciences from the University of Ottawa. She has experience working in community health, health promotion and clinical nutrition with a variety of populations including seniors, people with disabilities, newcomers, and youth. She believes that dietitians can play a strong role in supporting those with mental health needs through inclusive and accessible nutrition counselling.
Noel Laboratories, Inc. ("us", "we", or "our") operates https://www.noellabs.com (the "Website", "Services"). We believe that the privacy of our clients should be protected. This page informs you of our policies regarding the collection, use, and disclosure of Personal Information when you use our Services. We will not use or share your information with anyone except as described in this Privacy Policy. We use your Personal Information for providing and improving our Services. By using our Services, you agree to the collection and use of information in accordance with this policy.
While using our Website, we may ask you to provide us with certain personally identifiable information that can be used to contact or identify you. Personally identifiable information may include, but is not limited to, your email address, name ("Personal Information"). We collect this information for the purpose of providing Services, identifying and communicating with you, responding to your requests/inquiries, servicing your orders, and improving our Services.
We may also collect information that your web browser sends whenever you visit our Website ("Log Data"). This Log Data may include information such as your computer's Internet Protocol ("IP") address, browser type, browser version, the pages of our Service that you visit, the time and date of your visit, the time spent on those pages and other statistics.
We use Google Analytics, Google AdWords, and other Google services and third party tracking and or analytics services that place cookies on a browser across the website. These cookies help us increase our Website's effectiveness for our visitors. These cookies are set and read by Google. To opt out of Google tracking, please visit Google's Tracking Opt-Out web page. We use AdWords remarketing to market our Services across the web. We place a cookie on a browser, and then a 3rd party (Google) reads these cookies and may serve an ad on a 3rd party site. You may opt out of this ad serving on Google's opt out page. If you are concerned about 3rd party cookies or Log Data served by networks, you should also visit Google's Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page. Note, these third party service providers have their own privacy policies addressing how they use such information.
Your information, including Personal Information, may be transferred to — and maintained on — computers located outside of your state, province, country or other governmental jurisdiction where the data protection laws may differ than those from your jurisdiction. If you are located outside United States and choose to provide information to us, please note that we transfer the information, including Personal Information, to United States and process it here. Your consent to this Privacy Policy followed by your submission of such information represents your agreement to that transfer.
We have included links on this Website for your use and reference. We are not responsible for the privacy policies linked to external websites. You should be aware that the privacy policies of these sites may differ from our own. We have no control over, and assume no responsibility for the content, privacy policies or practices of any third party sites or services.
This Privacy Policy is effective as of July 1, 2017 and will remain in effect except with respect to any changes in its provisions in the future, which will be in effect immediately after being posted on this page. We reserve the right to update or change our Privacy Policy at any time and you should check this Privacy Policy periodically. Your continued use of our Service after we post any modifications to the Privacy Policy on this page will constitute your acknowledgment of the modifications and your consent to abide and be bound by the modified Privacy Policy.
Latest Advances in Eye Socket Fracture Surgery | Oculoplastic Eyelid Orbit Surgery
Posted by Admin November 20, 2017 No Comments
A substantially large portion of eye injuries and resultant fractures are caused due to work, car or sports related accidents. But in some of the more severe accidents, the impact may result in a fracture in the cup-like bone structure that houses the eye and related structures in the eye anatomy. Such a condition is known as eye socket fracture.
The biggest challenge in managing eye socket fractures is determining the need for surgical intervention. Depending upon the severity of the injury, treatment modalities may range from ice packs and antibiotics to a surgery for dislocated bone fragments and repositioning the eye in its socket. These cases can get even more complicated when treatment is delayed due to procrastination or improper diagnosis. In such cases, the fractured bone fragments may come together in an improper manner which may cause structural deformities on a secondary nature and aesthetic imperfections of the orbital region. The latest advances in eye socket fracture surgery, however, are now helping surgeons and doctors in avoiding such occurrences and preventing issues that may hamper a patient's quality of life post sustaining an eye socket fracture.
Over the past few years, many contributions have been made to the field of eye socket fracture surgery that have helped in improving surgeons' ability to restore normal aesthetics and functioning of the orbital bone structure. The understanding of orbital soft tissue and bine volumes have improved dramatically along with the extra-ocular muscle system. Computerized Tomographic (CT) scanning has also been a major contributor in helping a doctor understand the true nature and extent of the injury and analysing the type of fracture (Rim fracture Blow-out fracture or orbital floor fracture) it is, so as to provide timely medical intervention, thereby preventing secondary issues. The development of eye socket fracture surgeries and procedures such as rigid fixation, computerized plate alignment, and CT plates alignment have also helped surgeons in delivering better results from their prescribed treatments.
Getting in touch with a skilled and experienced surgeon for eye socket fracture surgery is important. Use of state of the art surgical tools, imaging techniques as well as new and improved procedures is crucial for successful treatment. Thankfully, India is standing in-step with the rest of the medical world when it comes to latest eye socket fracture surgeries and treatment modalities. If you have recently sustained such an injury, know that help isn't too far away from you.
August 2019 – Iranian Medical Directory
A new study followed adults from their mid-30s into their early 70s. It shows an association between blood pressure changes in early adulthood and midlife and brain changes at the endpoint of the study....
As cases of obesity and diabetes are on the rise, so are their complications. One complication that has recently been a point of focus for the American Heart Association (AHA) is high triglyceride levels....
The ability to predict how long someone is likely to live would help doctors tailor treatment plans. A new study looking at biomarkers in the blood concludes that more accurately estimating mortality might soon be possible....
Hydrogen peroxide is also an active ingredient in many teeth whitening treatments, which leads many people to wonder whether store-bought hydrogen peroxide makes a good tooth whitener as well. While hydrogen peroxide may help whiten the teeth in certain situations, there are some important safety issues to consider. H...
Ensuring best health care for CT – MDG – 500
Connecticut's wellness care process is dwelling to ideal-in-class hospitals and important gamers in the insurance policy marketplace. This is fantastic news, but we nonetheless have function to do for our process to prosper. Importantly, we should guarantee every and every single one of you can accessibility affordable, significant-excellent wellbeing treatment with coverage that satisfies your requirements. The superior news is that you may well be qualified for free wellbeing treatment protection as a result of a new program, and I desired to make sure that my neighbors listened to about it from me.
My title is Lou Gianquinto, and I am president of Anthem Blue Cross and Blue Defend in Connecticut. We are dedicated to simplifying overall health care and as a person of your neighbors in New Haven, I wanted to reach out to share info about Lined Connecticut, a new wellbeing program that presents cost-free protection to eligible people.
If you qualify, the state of Connecticut will pay out your component of the monthly premium for a well being prepare. They will also fork out all your value-sharing quantities (deductibles, copays, coinsurance, and greatest out-of-pocket fees). Anthem is very pleased to offer a strategy as component of this software. The Anthem prepare you can pick is the Silver PPO Normal Pathway health and fitness program, which provides you entry to a huge network of medical doctors, hospitals, and other health care pros, as properly as gains this sort of as accessibility to digital principal treatment by way of our Sydney Wellness application.
The enrollment interval will open by July 1, and this yr, the Lined Connecticut method will include things like expanded gains such as dental coverage and rides to the medical doctor at no expense.
To locate out if you are suitable for cost-free protection by means of Lined Connecticut, stop by accesshealthct.com, speak to a broker for cost-free, or connect with Obtain Health CT at 855-805-4325, Monday to Friday, 8 a.m. to 4 p.m. If you qualify, notify them you want the Anthem Silver system, it would be our enjoyment to serve you.
It is unfortunate that you took my post personally since it was not aimed at you but it was meant to address the content of your post. After reading your most recent post I realized that others might not be familiar with the scientific methodology employed in producing a safe and effective therapy for human administration and some might interpret your post as offering hope that a legitimate and proven effective treatment for ALS is currently available from Celltex.
Instead of presenting scientific evidence to support Dr. Jones assertions and claims, your post again presents only hearsay and anecdotes.
My intent was and is to apply a critical analysis to your post in order to get at the truth of the matter. There is no point in rehashing the analysis I provided in my previous post since it was based on knowledge and critical thinking, which is the only way you get to the truth of a matter.
Celltex still has not provided scientific evidence (approved rigorously conducted clinical trials) proving that their stem cell treatment is effective in ALS; therefore, a thoughtful and well-informed person should not take such a treatment seriously. By the way the only reason that the FDA exists is to protect the American public from false claims by those who would pedal ineffective and/or harmful treatment to hopeful patients. In my opinion, a company that cannot meet the FDA's high standards does not deserve to be taken seriously. I'm surprised that you did not mention the FDA’s letter to Celltex that was provided as a web link in my previous post since it is highly relevant to this discussion. By the way, an intrathecal injection is given via a lumbar puncture and doesn't require cracking open the spine and it is still likely to be the best and most efficient way to get millions of stem cells to the brain. You might find the following website of value when considering the rationale behind the need for clinical trials in medicine:
Finally, I would be remiss as a member of this forum of not trying my best to contribute a high level of accurate information whenever I can in order to support my fellow forum members.
TxRR, I am a lifelong disease management professional. Beyond building programs for people with comorbid physical and behavioral health disorders (yes, even ALS and Major Depressive Disorder), I have also done healthcare outcomes research. None of that makes me expert in stem-cell treatment, but it has taught me that evidence-based medicine -- i.e., medical practices and medical decisions that are driven by hard data and decision rules that are founded only in experiential evidence -- is a requirement for medical efficacy.
I did not interpret Eliot's response to you as a personal affront at all; indeed, it was instead a wholly objective denial of Dr. Jones' medical assertions -- assertions that are not evidence-based. You took Eliot's response as a personal affront, because you did not agree with (or like) his refutation. ALS -- in all its forms - - is misery for those of us who have it; it is misery for those who love and care for us, and it is misery for those who have lost loved ones to it. If Dr. Jones' had any integrity, he would be more clear that his approach is sheer experimentation -- it is certainly not evidence-based. That you don't like the facts that counter your position and/or that you don't agree does not change those facts as they are.
To say all of this more informally, Dr. Jones' should be ashamed of himself. But he is not --and this why he's off to Mexico. Another good reason to build that border wall.
brain, cell, mri, neurologist, nose, research, stem cell, stem cell therapy, stem cells, story, surgery, test, therapy, travel, treatment
Fast Facts - CCS Oncology Originated - 1998
Locations - Williamsville, Kenmore and Lockport
Website - www.ccsoncology.com
Phone - 810-9631
Board Certified Physicians - W. Sam Yi, MD, medical director, Johnny Yap, MD and Kyu Shin, MD Employees - Over 30 employees including board certified medical dosimetrists and medical physicists
CCS Oncology, your local choice for radiation therapy, offers state-of-the-art-technology right here in Western New York. CCS Oncology is the first and only radiation facility in Western and Upstate New York and first of 10 in the United States to offer Varian's TrueBeam STx, the most advanced tumor targeting system available.
CCS Oncology operates three locations in Erie and Niagara Counties with their newest location at Windsong Medical Park in Williamsville. The facilities are conveniently located in suburban settings to eliminate the need for patients to travel to larger urban-based centers for treatment.
Technology and Treatments The TrueBeam STx system, which is available at the Williamsville location, utilizes a multitude of technical innovations to dynamically synchronize imaging, patient positioning, motion management and treatment delivery. The system can also deliver treatments up to 50 percent faster with a dose delivery rate of up to 2,400 monitor units per minute - double the maximum output of earlier Varian systems. The automation further speeds treatments with reduction in the number of steps needed for imaging, positioning and treating patients. With this advanced level of technology, CCS patients benefit from shorter treatment time, improved precision and less time for tumor motion during dose delivery. For example, a standard intensity-modulated treatment that would typically take 10 minutes can be completed in less than two minutes. Additionally, complex radiosurgery that typically takes 40 minutes to an hour can be completed in just five to 20 minutes. "Treating cancer effectively and aggressively means investing in the best equipment," stated Dr. Yi, medical director at CCS Oncology. "Being that we are the only facility in our area to have this advanced form of treatment, we are able to offer our patients options that are truly life changing." CCS has invested in our communities and is pleased to bring this level of treatment to the Western and Upstate New York areas. "I've seen patients who'd been turned away and told to go for hospice care," Dr. Yi stated. "Very often, I was able to offer them hope and a better quality of life with our advanced radiation treatments."
CCS's integrated technologies include GammaKnife, Cyberknife, RapidArc, Radiosurgery, IMRT and IGRT. This includes Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) for metastatic tumors in the brain, lung, liver and spine; IGRT image-guided radiotherapy for precise targeting; IMRT with RapidArc for protection of normal tissues around the treatment area; respiratory gaiting and motion control; CT-guided prostate seed implant; and high dose rate Brachytherapy for treating breast cancer and gynecological cancers.
CCS treats all stages and types of cancers, including the most advanced forms of brain, breast, prostate, gynecological, lung, liver and gastrointestinal. By utilizing stereotactic radiosurgery, they can treat certain types of brain, lung and liver cancers without doing open surgery. Additionally, CCS is the only treatment center in WNY to offer CT-guided prostate seed implanting. CCS is under the direction and leadership of medical director W. Sam Yi, MD. Radiation oncologists Dr. Kyu Shin and Dr. Johnny Yap lead a highly qualified staff of registered nurses, medical dosimetrists, medical physicists and radiation therapists at CCS Oncology. CCS's locations include 2950 Elmwood Avenue in Kenmore, 810 Davison Road in Lockport and 45 Spindrift Drive in Williamsville.
