[13], The medication typically recommended first are acetaminophen (paracetamol), NSAIDs (though not aspirin), or skeletal muscle relaxants and these are enough for most people. [111], Low back pain has been with humans since at least the Bronze Age. Seek immediate medical attention if the lower back pain is affecting coordination or bladder or bowel control. Bend only at the knees, hold the weight close to your body, and straighten the legs while changing the position of your back as little as possible. 9400 West Higgins Road A systematic review", "The association between chronic low back pain and sleep: a systematic review", "An Evidence-Based Approach to the Evaluation and Treatment of Low Back Pin in the Emergency Department", "The pathogenesis of degeneration of the intervertebral disc and emerging therapies in the management of back pain", American College of Radiology ACR Appropriateness Criteria – Low Back Pain, "Five Things Physicians and Patients Should Question", "Diagnosis and treatment of low back pain: a joint clinical practice guideline from the American College of Physicians and the American Pain Society", "Red flags to screen for malignancy and fracture in patients with low back pain: systematic review", "Systematic review of lumbar discography as a diagnostic test for chronic low back pain", "Ten Things Physicians and Patients Should Question", "Appropriate use of diagnostic imaging in low back pain: a reminder that unnecessary imaging may do as much harm as good", "Prevention of Low Back Pain: A Systematic Review and Meta-analysis", "Non-Invasive and Minimally Invasive Management of Low Back Disorders", "Multidisciplinary team care in rehabilitation: an overview of reviews", "The relationship between physical activity and low back pain outcomes: a systematic review of observational studies", "The effectiveness of walking as an intervention for low back pain: a systematic review", "Superficial heat or cold for low back pain", "A systematic review on the effectiveness of physical and rehabilitation interventions for chronic non-specific low back pain", "Therapeutic ultrasound for chronic low back pain", "Lumbar supports for prevention and treatment of low back pain", "Which specific modes of exercise training are most effective for treating low back pain? [7][8] About 40% of people have LBP at some point in their lives,[7] with estimates as high as 80% among people in the developed world. However, it is more likely to be a symptom of many other, more common conditions. It can begin suddenly as a result of an accident or by lifting something heavy, or it can develop over time as we age. Knees will have to wait as I’m currently going through physical therapy after a gun shot wound through the left knee. He thinks that with cortisone shots in my groin for my hip (wtf?) According to medical guidelines, the physician should examine them for red flags that suggest infection, fracture, or another urgent problem. When warranted, imaging such as MRI can provide clear detail about disc related causes of back pain (L4–L5 disc herniation shown). [6], Increasing general physical activity has been recommended, but no clear relationship to pain or disability has been found when used for the treatment of an acute episode of pain. NIH staff guidance on coronavirus (NIH Only). Social anxiety, depression, and dating app use: What is the link? Stability of the spine is provided by the ligaments and muscles of the back and abdomen. Book Review: A Fresh Look at Our Neanderthal Kin, Opinion: Fixing Our Broken Nuclear Weapons Policy. Lower back pain can prevent a person from sleeping well, which, in itself, can make back pain worse. Through the Medieval period, folk medicine practitioners provided treatments for back pain based on the belief that it was caused by spirits. At one year, pain and disability levels are low to minimal in most people. Any medical information published on this website is not intended as a substitute for informed medical advice and you should not take any action before consulting with a healthcare professional. Exercise regularly to keep muscles strong and flexible. To say otherwise is simply wrong and dangerous. All rights reserved. Adrenal glands, Levin says, are notorious for having cysts that, in the end, won’t cause any problems. I only found that out from imaging. The researchers’ conclusion: use of low-value procedures “in patients who probably should not receive them is harming some of those patients.”. People with lower back pain should seek immediate medical attention if they also have any of the following symptoms: A doctor can help a person identify potential causes of lower back pain and recommend appropriate treatment. A common surgical approach to scoliosis is a spinal fusion, wherein a surgeon fuses two or more vertebrae together to straighten the spine. [6] Recommendations include remaining active, avoiding activity that worsen the pain, and understanding self-care of the symptoms. [40][41] The most useful for detecting a fracture are: older age, corticosteroid use, and significant trauma especially if it results in skin markings. Maintain a healthy weight and eat a nutritious diet with sufficient daily intake of calcium, phosphorus, and vitamin D to promote new bone growth. There are two main types of exercise that people can do to reduce the risk of back pain: Diet: Make sure your diet includes enough calcium and vitamin D, as these are needed for bone health. [53] Motor control exercise involves guided movement and use of normal muscles during simple tasks which then builds to more complex tasks improves pain and function up to 20 weeks but was little different from manual therapy and other forms of exercise. If a patient has a herniated disk surgery may be an option, especially if there is persistent pain and nerve compression which can lead to muscle weakness. Rigid adherence to a protocol demonstrates a failure of professional judgment. I also found it useful to use my “crystal ball” and predict the person’s symptoms before they told me. A healthful diet also helps control body weight. This is such a bad idea. I had a lumbar fusion 5 years ago. I’ve also been diagnosed with arthritis Iin my neck, lumbar, and knees, Neck and lumbar are scheduled for cortisone injections, which I have zero faith in. The description of the symptoms may range from tenderness at a particular point to diffuse pain. THANKS FOR THE ARTICLE IM A 57 YEAR MALE AND HAVE HAD BACK AND SPINE ISSUES MY WHOLE LIFE IVE BEEN FUSED FROM TOP TO BOTTOM I RECENTLY MOVED FROM WISCONSIN TO FLORIDA AND MY BACK ISSUES HAVE RESURFACED IVE BEEN TRYING TO GET AN MRI OF MY LOWER BACK BEEN WAITING 2 MONTHS FINALLY HAVING TO SELF PAY BEEN IN CONSTANT PAIN FOR 3 MONTHS I DO UNDERSTAND THE IMAGING CONCERNS BUT AS ALIFE LONG BACK/SPINE SUFFERER I AM FRUSTRATED WITH MY INSURANCE FLORIDA BLUE WHICH I SELF PAY $900 / MONTH WHEN A PERSON IS IN CONSTANT PAIN THEY JUST WANT RELIEF MRI/CT SCAN GO THROUGH THE PROCESS BUT I KNOW MY BODY BETTER THAN AN INSURANCE COMPANY PLEASE DONT DELAY APPROVALS RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED, so if they’re not requesting for people to have MRIs or ct for the pain in your lower back what are they requesting for patients to receive what kind of therapy besides physical therapy what kind of testing can they have besides just an MRI or a cat-scan and what kind of relief are they going to get from you cuz I am a patient of spinal degeneration for 23 years I had eight back surgery with numerous MRI and cat Scan spinal injections three neck surgeries my spine needs to be reconstructed so tell me what should a patient that is that bad. [97] The overall quality of the evidence was low and the authors conclude that massage therapy is generally not an effective treatment for low back pain. Teach prevention of spinal flexion in the day to day life. [70] Evidence for the use of shoe insoles as a treatment is inconclusive. I think that too often doctors will ignore the symptoms, and depend too much on test results to make a call. Alkherayf F, et al. [80][13] These medications carry a risk of addiction, may have negative interactions with other drugs, and have a greater risk of side effects, including dizziness, nausea, and constipation. There is no doubt that this false narrative will be used to make things worse. Freda, Autopsies Were in Decline. Foster NE, et al. I care and lots of people care because we are going through the same thing. [109], Low back pain that lasts at least one day and limits activity is a common complaint. Other regions of vertebrate are cervical (in the neck), thoracic (upper back), and sacral and coccygeal (below the lumbar area) segments. Posture when sitting: A good seat for working should have good back support, arm rests and a swivel base. [112], At the start of the 20th century, physicians thought low back pain was caused by inflammation of or damage to the nerves,[112] with neuralgia and neuritis frequently mentioned by them in the medical literature of the time. Protocols are well and good but but the first thing you learn in law school is there are exceptions to every rule. [97] Massage therapy is recommended for selected people with subacute and chronic low back pain, but it should be paired with another form of treatment like aerobic or strength exercises. Some examples of spinal infections include vertebral osteomyelitis, which is an infection of the spinal bones, and a spinal epidural abscess, which is an infection that develops in the protective membranes around the spinal cord. According to the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, around 80% of adults will have lower back pain at some point during their lives. The article was advocating no treatment and chiropractors are into treatment. The US is already rationing healthcare, and this is a clear example. [5] There are three general types of low back pain by cause: mechanical back pain (including nonspecific musculoskeletal strains, herniated discs, compressed nerve roots, degenerative discs or joint disease, and broken vertebra), non-mechanical back pain (tumors, inflammatory conditions such as spondyloarthritis, and infections), and referred pain from internal organs (gallbladder disease, kidney stones, kidney infections, and aortic aneurysm, among others). I’m lucky because it happened slowly over time and the nerve channel slowely adjusted. Probably an LS spine series would have. See the stories of satisfied Mayo Clinic patients. The human back is composed of a complex structure of muscles, ligaments, tendons, disks, and bones, which work together to support the body and enable us to move around. Receiving a forceful impact to the back can cause spinal damage in the form of vertebral fractures and herniated or ruptured discs. When he had his first appointment in Mayo Clinic's Division of [...]. It can be uncomfortable and debilitating. If patients paid for non-catastrophic health care the same way they paid for non-catastrophic home maintenance and repair (credit card, financing with providers, or even paying themselves then filing an insurance claim), prices would be held down nicely. For more information on neurological disorders or research programs funded by the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, contact the Institute's Brain Resources and Information Network (BRAIN) at: BRAIN
The Sound Of Music Morning Hymn / Alleluia Lyrics, Summer Bridge Activities Grades 3-4, Common Core Math 4th Grade Answer Key, Tracheids Definition Biology, Can Dogs Eat Peas, Hydraulic Intensifier Application, Chondromalacia Patella Symptoms, Samsung Tv Volume Low At 100, Meguiar's Carpet And Upholstery Cleaner Walmart, Exercises For Achilles Tendonitis Rehabilitation, School Choice Zones, Michelin Energy Saver 235/50 R17 96h, Samsung Dryer Model Dv431aep/xaa-01, Warhammer Army Books Pdf, Patagonia Fleece, Capi Tonic Water Woolworths, 21 Day Fix Workout Dvd, 40k Engine War Release Date, British American Football, Tiktok Old Age Filter, Aircraft Rental Archerfield, Takom Panther G Review, Season Jojo Lyrics, Shapla Dunbar Menu, Samsung 5 Series M5300 49 Inch, Warhammer Army Books Pdf, Do Elbow Sleeves Increase Bench Press, Can Dogs Eat Peas, Multifamily Property For Sale, Old Corner Campsite Fall Creek Falls, Flowers That Grow In Minnesota, Edison High School Counselors, How To Build A Stone Water Wall,
Jeanne Purdum, M.S., LMFT - Integrated Therapy Services NW PLLC
Co-founder of ITS NW PLLC
Jeanne is a Certified Eating Psychology Coach by the Institute for the Psychology of Eating; The World's Leading School in Nutritional Psychology.
Jeanne is a Certified AAMFT Clinical Supervisor and is a Washington State approved supervisor.
Jeanne is a Washington State designated Child Mental Health Specialist.
Jeanne is a Certified Parent Child Interaction Therapist (PCIT) by PCIT International.
The Incredible Years®, Parent Group Leader
As co-founder of Integrated Therapy Services NW PLLC, Jeanne is dedicated to providing cutting-edge mental health services to children and their families. Jeanne has experience providing individual, couples, child and family therapy to treat issues of depression/anxiety, trauma, grief and loss, ADHD and other behavioral issues. Jeanne specializes in working with children and parents to address the complex relationship between anxiety and/or behavioral problems and food allergies, sensitivities, and/or other health conditions.
Jeanne is a clinical supervisor who has earned national accreditation through the AAMFT. She enjoys supervising Master's level therapists who are working toward licensure and being a part of the learning process that produces professional and personal growth.
how long is recovery,and what symptoms remain such as body pain, fatigue, dizziness, weakness and memory loss. I had sepsis and gall bladder removal, spent …
Neck And Back Pain In Pregnancy This article may require cleanup to meet Wikipedia's quality standards. The specific problem is: As of now, this article is quite disorganized and confusing. MDGuidelines is the most trusted source of disability guidelines, disability durations, and return to work information on neck pain. Does Osteoporosis Cause Low Back Pain Severe Lower Back Pain After Lying
The Greatest Power is the Power of our Subconscious Mind. Once we understand this and learn to use the power within us, we can create wonderful changes in …
Kidney stone formers often ask us whether their soda drinking caused their kidney stones. Many have already taken the initiative to cut out all their soda …
Well, for the person who had the pain after passing the stones, I think that it was just from the trauma of passing the stone and since urine is a little …
Oxycodone withdrawal symptoms: How long? Withdrawal symptoms usually begin 4- 6 hours after the last use of the drug. In general, oxycodone withdrawal …
15.08.2008 · Jessie said… Finally, someone that has really described the pain! I had a cyst rupture on my right ovary 6 days ago. I described the pain to …
Back pain creates a great deal of inconvenience and also obstacle to the normal way of living of an individual. There are a variety of back pain triggers, but the two most usual causes associated with discs are disc injury as well as degenerative disc. Disc degeneration brings about water content loss that narrows the gap between two vertebrae. This can trigger pinching of a nerve and also succeeding pain. Bulging discs are typically puzzled with burst discs. While the previous problem is normal, the later problem could be severe. Discs may bulge throughout the day as they lug the body weight, and also get back to typical in the evening when we rest. Burst discs are damaged discs caused by leakage of jelly like material called nucleus pulposus.
Related: 39 Weeks Pregnant Cramps And Back Pain
Lingering Back Pain After Passing Kidney Stone 2020 5 out of 5 based on 419 ratings.
Related: Severe Back Pain Pregnancy Safe Medication
Filed Under: Back Pain Causes Tagged With: abdominal pain, Bulging Protruding, Gallstone Complications Complications, kidney stones, lower back pain, lung cancer, Muscular Muscle, NASA, neck pain, North pole, Pain Discomfort, PS, Ruptured Burst Fractured
"Dry Needling Alters Trigger Points in the Upper Trapezius Muscle and Reduces Pain in Subjects with Chronic Myofascial Pain" | Integrative Dry Needling Institute
"Dry Needling Alters Trigger Points in the Upper Trapezius Muscle and Reduces Pain in Subjects with Chronic Myofascial Pain"
"Dry Needling Alters Trigger Points in the Upper Trapezius Muscle and Reduces Pain in Subjects with Chronic Myofascial Pain"
PM R. 2015 Feb 4;
Authors: Gerber LH, Shah J, Rosenberger W, Armstrong K, Turo D, Otto P, Heimur J, Thaker N, Sikdar S
DESIGN: A prospective, non-randomized, controlled interventional clinical study SETTING: University campus PARTICIPANTS: Fifty-six subjects with neck or shoulder girdle pain > 3 months duration and active MTrPs were recruited from a campus-wide, volunteer sample. Fifty-two completed the study (23 male/33 female) with mean age of 35.8 years.
INTERVENTIONS: Three weekly dry needling treatments of a single active MTrP Main Outcome Measures PRIMARY OUTCOMES: Baseline and post treatment evaluations of pain using the verbal analogue scale, the Brief Pain Inventory and the status of the MTrP as determined by digital palpation. Trigger points were rated: active (spontaneously painful), latent (requiring palpation to reproduce the characteristic pain) and resolved (no palpable nodule).
SECONDARY OUTCOMES: Profile of Mood States, Oswestry Disability Index, Short Form 36, Cervical Range of Motion. Results PRIMARY OUTCOMES: 41 subjects had a change in trigger point status from active to latent or resolved; and 11 had no change (p < .001). Reduction in all pain scores was significant (p<.001).
SECONDARY OUTCOMES: significant improvement in post-treatment cervical rotational asymmetry in subjects with unilateral/bilateral MTrPs (p=.001, p=21, respectively); in pain pressure threshold in subjects with unilateral/bilateral MTrPs, (p=.006, p=.012), respectively; improvement in the SF-36 mental health and physical functioning subscales (p=.019, p=.03) respectively; decrease in the Oswestry disability scale (p=.003).
CONCLUSIONS: Dry needling reduces pain and changes MTrP status. Change in trigger point status is associated with a statistically and clinically significant reduction in pain. Reduction in pain is associated with improved mood, function and level of disability.
re mote control grinding machine
the rugged sti prep/master grinder now has a remote-control ride-on version…introducing the new 3030-rc and 4430-rc p/m machines built with the same precise rotary grinding technology and powerful engines as the standard p/m machines, the electric rcs grind and polish with amazing ease and strength, as well as use cutting-edge robotics.
global remote control floor grinding machine market report 2019 - market size, share, price, trend and forecast is a professional and in-depth study on the current state of the global remote control floor grinding machine industry. the key insights of the report:
the prep/master 4430-rc remote control floor grinding machine is designed and built with the same cutting-edge and user-friendly technology as the standard prep/master grinding machines, but with state-of-the-art robotics technology equipped with the sti rotary design gearbox, sturdy steel frame, and robust, and reliable 25hp motor, it is safe
gtx-series remote-control propane grinding/polishing machines> gtx-series remote-controlled grinding/polishing machines. concrete polishing hq is proud to introduce the newest generation of lavina machines the lavina x series. there are many new upgrades to the x series machines such as: the bases on most machines now feature a
rc pro 9. 30" remote control propane grinder. the all new propane powered and remote controlled asl rc pro 9 is a revolutionary floor grinding machine built to relieve the stress of the driver. there are no need for cords, and the propane machine meets all emissions standards for indoor use.
we are in the process of buying a new stump grinder and are looking at some machines with remote control systems. all of our current stump grinders have manual controls in which the user manually maneuvers the hydraulic control valves.
husqvarna floor grinders and polishing pg 680 rc
pg 680 rc is a remote-controlled concrete floor grinder with unique oscillation function and dual drive technology . compared to standard floor grinders this remote-controlled grinder enables significantly higher productivity and even better work results together with more ergonomic operation and effortless transportation to and from the work site.
how to build your own swimming pool. all process, step by step in only 30 minutes . - duration: 31:22. alexander fedorov 10,533,678 views
purchase the high quality and precise remote control floor grinding machine for sale from ronlon for sale from ronlon machinery - a leading manufacturer and supplier in china. our products are of fine workmanship, good performance and strong durability. come and enjoy our unmatched prices and services.
lavina 38gr-x remote controlled three head planetary
control engineering more precision, faster setup for die
since the machine grinds every die exactly the same, and every die is much closer to the specification, the dies are lasting longer." "in the past," he continues, "i might have to grind two or three dies to get one good one," he said. "with this machine, i know that once i've set the grinding parameters, it will hold the size i want.
custom remote control grinding machine,remote control
enjoy best selection of remote control grinding machine at xy1118.com. if you're interested in our products, please do not hesitate to contact me,thank you
Your doctor will ask questions about your condition and perform a physical exam that usually includes a visual inspection of your anus. A probe may be used to examine this area for nerve damage. Normally, this touching causes your anal sphincter to contract and your anus to pucker.
A number of medical tests are available to help pinpoint the cause of bowel incontinence:
Digital rectal exam. Your doctor inserts a gloved and lubricated finger into your rectum to evaluate the strength of your sphincter muscles and to check for any abnormalities in the rectal area. During the exam your doctor may ask you to bear down to check for rectal prolapse.
Balloon expulsion test. A small balloon is inserted into the rectum and filled with water. You’ll then be asked to go to the toilet to expel the balloon. If it takes longer than one to three minutes to do so, you likely have a defecation disorder.
Anal manometry. A narrow, flexible tube is inserted into the anus and rectum. A small balloon at the tip of the tube may be expanded. This test helps measure the tightness of your anal sphincter and the sensitivity and function of your rectum.
Anorectal ultrasonography. A narrow, wand-like instrument is inserted into the anus and rectum. The instrument produces video images that allow your doctor to evaluate the structure of your sphincter.
Proctography. X-ray video images are made while you have a bowel movement on a specially designed toilet. The test measures how much stool your rectum can hold and evaluates how well your body expels stool.
Colonoscopy. A flexible tube is inserted into your rectum to inspect the entire colon.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). An MRI can provide clear pictures of the sphincter to determine if the muscles are intact and can also provide images during defecation (defecography).
Legal
Interpreter Services
Non-Discrimination Notice
Physician Ownership
Grievance
Patient Privacy Notice
Social Media
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
YouTube
Northwest Specialty Hospital
1593 East Polston Avenue, Post Falls, Idaho 83854
P (208) 262-2300 | F (208) 262-2390
© 2022 Northwest Specialty Hospital. All rights reserved. Northwest Specialty Hospital is proudly owned and operated by physicians.
EBook Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library Download. Download Free EPUB Book Now!
It's Okay to be the BossHalf a War (Shattered Sea)New England RocksMusic, Movies, Meanings, and MarketsPregnancy Relaxation (Twins) Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library PDF ePub eBook
Books Info: "The Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library," 5th edition, includes more than 220 documents of new and current publications. The documents provide information on water supply and sanitation, recreational/bathing waters, achieving the Millennium Development Goals on water, sanitation and hygiene, drinking-water quality, water resources management and health-care waste. Included are full text books and guidelines, facts sheets, facts and figures, posters, advocacy materials and other information products.The CD ROM is intended to assist all those interested in water, sanitation and health by providing them with comprehensive up-to-date information. Users include public health specialists, scientists, policy makers, practitioners, academics, non-governmental organizations in developing and developed countries. By assisting these and other user groups the electronic library is intended to contribute towards the International Decade for Action, Water for Life: 2005-2015. The CD ROM is periodically supplemented and updated.
However, currently we can't give you info on the Writer World Health Organization. But this does not always mean that individuals do not work to be with her series. We all consult that you just assist us in this particular make a difference. In case you have down time and want will immensely value should you give us all your details. Any time obtaining this sort of suggestions and knowledge coming from users about the Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library Author World Health Organization, we all 1st your ex check out. The moment all of us be sure that all true, only publish this. Most of us understand why support as well as appreciate it before hand.
9240560262
9789240560260
Reviews Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library
Baldwin My first reviews Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library pdf
Reply · 1 · Like · Follow · 1 hour ago Margo Anderson Get eBook Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library
I was suspicious at first when i got redirected to the membership site. Now I'm really excited i found this online library....many thanks Kisses Reply · 12 · Like · Follow · 1 hour ago Markus Jensen How to download Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library eBook?
Reply · 1 · Like · Follow · 1 hour ago Roddy Murray My friends are so mad that they do not know how I have all the high quality ebook which they do not! Reply · 2 · Like · Follow · 3 hour ago Peterson reply to World Health Organization
Reply · 1 · Like · Follow · 1 hour ago Tina Milan It's very easy to get quality ebooks ;) Reply · 2 · Like · Follow · 3 hour ago Kirk Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library
Gender Issues in Water and Sanitation ProgrammesExclusion and inequitable access to water. sanitation and hygiene (WASH) services and opportunities are major concerns to development practitioners. The job of providing water for the household invariably falls on women.. How to Integrate Water Sanitation and Hygiene into HIV ProgrammesWater. sanitation and hygiene (WASH) practices are essential for maintaining people's health and dignity. People with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) have an increased risk of diarrhoeal diseases. which can decrease their life expectancy and quality of life.. Decentralised Governance in Water and Sanitation in Rural IndiaWater. sanitation and hygiene (WASH) impact health. nutrition and livelihood status of millions of Indians every day. Decentralised governance is a key strategy for enhancing efficiency. equity and justice in this vital sector.. Urban Water SecurityUnderstanding the impacts of urbanization on the urban water cycle and managing the associated health risks demand adequate strategies and measures. Health risks associated with urban water systems and services include the microbiological and chemical contamination of urban waters and outbreak of water-borne diseases.. Ozonation of Water and Waste WaterThe ozonation of compounds in water is a complex process. The mechanisms are very complicated. the parameters are many. but the possibilities of developing cost-effective treatment schemes for drinking water and waste water are large.. Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library. "The Water, Sanitation and Health Electronic Library," 5th edition, includes more than 220 documents of new and current publications. The documents provide information on water supply and sanitation
The Impact of Polypharmacy in Elderly Patients with Type 2 Diabetes
Home / Specialties / Geriatric Medicine / The Impact of Polypharmacy in Elderly Patients with Type 2 Diabetes
Can the use of polypharmacy put elderly patients at increased risk for hospitalization, falls, and all-cause mortality?
Polypharmacy can be associated with many adverse effects, especially when it comes to elderly, frail patients. Risk of hypoglycemia, medication adherence, drug-drug interactions, worsened quality of life, increased risk of hospitalization, mortality rate, and health care costs are all associated with polypharmacy. However, there are no available data that examines all patient outcomes when it comes to polypharmacy. This article wanted to summarize the existing literature discussing polypharmacy and different adverse health outcomes in elderly patients with type 2 diabetes.
This article served as a systematic review and meta-analysis. They examined observational studies, including cross-sectional studies, cohort studies, case series, case-control studies, and Interventional studies, which included randomized controlled trials and quasi-experimental studies. Only articles that were written in English were included in the analysis. The characteristics of patients were 65 years of age or older with a diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. Primary outcomes included all-cause mortality, glycemic control (Functionally independent (HbA1c 7.0-7.5%), subcategory (A) frail (HbA1c ≤ 8.5%). (B) Functionally dependent (HbA1c 7.0-8.0%), sub-category (B) dementia (HbA1c ≤ 8.5%)), macrovascular complications (coronary artery disease, heart failure, cerebrovascular disease, and stroke), hospitalization or hospital re-admission. Secondary outcomes included the association between polypharmacy and inappropriate medicines, drug-drug interactions, and falls or fall risk. The odds ratio was used to associate polypharmacy with adverse health consequences. Meta-analysis was used when two or more studies with the same design identified the same outcome using the random-effect model. Heterogeneity was assessed by I2 test.
After searching the electronic databases and applying the exclusion criteria, 16 studies were included in the systematic review, and three studies were included in the meta-analysis. 1,205,821 patients were included in this review. About 50% of these patients were female, and 97% were elderly. The definition of polypharmacy included using five or more medications in 50% of the studies, and the prevalence was between 6.25 to 93.4%. This review found that almost 28% of elderly patients with type 2 diabetes had an HbA1c of 8% to ≥ 8.5%, even though they were heavily treated with antidiabetic medications. According to the studies, there was no association between HbA1c and polypharmacy use. Using BEER's criteria, the prevalence of potentially inappropriate medicines was between 22.7% to 79%. Using STOPP criteria, the majority was 48%. The most common medications used were metformin in patients 85 years old or older, benzodiazepines, tricyclic antidepressants, aspirin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and beta-blockers. A Drug-drug interaction associated with polypharmacy was between sulfonylureas and co-trimoxazole antibiotics, causing severe hypoglycemia. Other interactions included oral hypoglycemic agents with hydrochlorothiazide, furosemide, angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors, simvastatin, and prednisone. No association between fall or fall risk in polypharmacy was detected. Polypharmacy was significantly associated with all-cause mortality in 2 cohorts (pooled OR, 1.622; 95% CI 1.606 to 1.637, P<0.001, I²=0%). However, when the cross-sectional study was included, it was no longer statistically significant, I²=92%. The association between myocardial infarction and polypharmacy was substantial in 2 cohorts (pooled OR, 1.962; 95% CI 1.942 to 1.982, P<0.001, I²=0%) and remained significant after including the cross-sectional study, I²=94%. There was no significant association between polypharmacy and hospitalization, I²=57%.
The results of this analysis were mixed. Some studies were able to associate polypharmacy with adverse outcomes, while others could not. Limitations of this meta-analysis included the limitations of the studies that it assessed. One limitation consists of the variable definition of polypharmacy. Another limitation was the representation of the elderly population in clinical trials. Polypharmacy can lead to inappropriate medication use that would increase the risk of adverse health outcomes in elderly patients with type 2 diabetes. Therefore, it should be limited and monitoring parameters established, such as laboratory testing and patient education, to monitor these adverse events.
Polypharmacy was significantly associated with myocardial infarction but wasn't associated with hospitalization, fall, or fall risk.
A definite association was not established between all-cause mortality and the use of polypharmacy.
Polypharmacy use should be limited regardless of association to optimize medication use in patients at increased risk for adverse health consequences.
Al-Musawe, Labib, et al. "The Association Between Polypharmacy and Adverse Health Consequences in Elderly Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus Patients; a Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis." Diabetes Research and Clinical Practice, 2020
Coenzyme Q10 is a mitochondrial enzyme with antioxidant properties that may provide neuroprotection. A Phase 2 study (NCT00243932) showed that high doses of the enzyme were safe and well-tolerated, but there was no difference between placebo and coenzyme Q10 in improving function in ALS patients.
Omega-3 fatty acids are polyunsaturated fatty acids that are required for proper brain functioning and are known to reduce neuroinflammation. Research showed that a diet rich in omega-3 fatty acids could lower the risk of developing ALS.
DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000000676
PMID: 27482480
George M. Viola; Jesse C. Selber; Melissa Crosby; Issam I. Raad; Charles E. Butler; Mark T. Villa; Steven J. Kronowitz; Mark W. Clemens; Patrick Garvey; Wei Yang; Donald P. Baumann
Infections of breast tissue expander (TE) are complex, often requiring TE removal and hospitalization, which can delay further adjuvant therapy and add to the overall costs of breast reconstruction. Therefore, to reduce the rate of TE removal, hospitalization, and costs, we created a standardized same-day multidisciplinary outpatient quality improvement protocol for diagnosing and treating patients with early signs of TE infection.
We prospectively evaluated 26 consecutive patients who developed a surgical site infection between February 2013 and April 2014. On the same day, patients were seen in the Plastic Surgery and Infectious Diseases clinics, underwent breast ultrasonography with or without periprosthetic fluid aspiration, and were prescribed a standardized empiric oral or intravenous antimicrobial regimen active against biofilm-embedded microorganisms. All patients were managed as per our established treatment algorithm and were followed up for a minimum of 1 year.
TEs were salvaged in 19 of 26 patients (73%). Compared with TE-salvaged patients, TE-explanted patients had a shorter median time to infection (20 vs 40 days; P = 0.09), a significantly higher median temperature at initial presentation [99.8°F; interquartile range (IQR) = 2.1 vs 98.3°F; IQR = 0.4°F; P = 0.01], and a significantly longer median antimicrobial treatment duration (28 days; IQR = 27 vs 21 days; IQR = 14 days; P = 0.05). The TE salvage rates of patients whose specimen cultures yielded no microbial growth, Staphylococcus species, and Pseudomonas were 92%, 75%, and 0%, respectively. Patients who had developed a deep-seated pocket infection were significantly more likely than those with superficial cellulitis to undergo TE explantation (P = 0.021).
Our same-day multidisciplinary diagnostic and treatment algorithm not only yielded a TE salvage rate higher than those previously reported but also decreased the rate of hospitalization, decreased overall costs, and identified several clinical scenarios in which TE explantation was likely.
