Koninklijke DSM NV (via Public) / DSM acquires next-generation eubiotics platform start-up
07/27/2021 | Press release | Distributed by Public on 07/27/2021 00:03
Royal DSM, a global science-based company in Nutrition, Health and Sustainable Living, has acquired Midori USA, Inc. ('Midori'), a biotechnology start-up with a novel precision platform developing breakthrough targeted eubiotics that improve the health and environmental impact of animals. DSM already owns 38.5% of the shares of Midori and has today acquired the remaining 61.5% for a consideration of US$63m.
The use of eubiotics has grown significantly as farming practices shift to become more sustainable and along with the need to provide antibiotic alternatives. Midori's platform is highly synergetic with DSM's bioscience capability and current eubiotics portfolio, which was further strengthened through the acquisition of Biomin (as part of the Erber Group).
DSM will launch its first targeted glycan - Symphiome™ - later this year. This unique eubiotic will be the first product from DSM's collaboration with Midori, leveraging functional modulation of the gut microbiome to improve the gut health, feed efficiency and welfare of poultry, while reducing the use of antibiotics and lowering the environmental emissions of poultry farming. Symphiome™ will be the second novel mode of action eubiotic product that DSM will bring to the market after the successful launch of Balancius®, a breakthrough innovation that improves the overall digestive health of animals.
Smartlinks | Koninklijke DSM NV | News | Environment | Health | Biotechnology | Technology | Biotechnology | Science | Biology | Biotechnology | Research | Top Business and Economy News | Finance | Conglomerates and Diversified | Stock Markets | Security Markets | Stock Markets | Security Markets | Company News | Top Company News | Mergers and Acquisitions | Chemicals | Financial Services | Investment Funds | Investment Services | Manufacturing | Public Companies | Specialty Chemical Companies | London Stock Exchange (LSE) | Börse Frankfurt | Wiener Börse (ATX) | Börse Berlin | Börse Düsseldorf | Börse München | Börse Stuttgart | Bolsa Mexicana de Valores (BMV) | OTC Markets | BX Swiss | Tradegate Exchange | Turquoise | Euronext Amsterdam | Börse Hamburg | Börse Hannover | Cboe BXE Europe | Cboe CXE Europe | Cboe Off Exchange | Börse Berlin Equiduct Trading | Aquis Exchange | SIGMA X MTF | EuroTLX | Bolsa Institucional de Valores (BIVA) | Euronext Block MTF
Home > Internet Courses Info and Advice > Occupational Therapy School Based
Though he is currently based in Charlotte, working as a consultant specializing. As for the castle, which Hossain intends to use for gatherings, an occupational.
About Genprex, Inc. Genprex, Inc. is a clinical stage gene therapy company developing a new approach to treating.
New technologies also are framing occupational therapy. Franciscan, for.
PROVIDENCE, R.I. [Brown University] — A study published today in the Journal.
Credit: Wikipedia A recent study from researchers at the Icahn School of.
SMETHPORT — Smethport Area School District officials expressed their serious. Also gaining the nod were agreements with CARE for Children for physical and occupational therapy services and another one with Beacon.
such as playing tailored occupational therapy games — which helps to increase her fine motor and processing skills, or other computer programs to increase her.
The UAH Rise School Advisory Council. Children also receive therapy services, including physical, occupational, speech, and music therapy.
Canada has one of the most advanced professional organizational structures for rehabilitation practice in the world. The educational programs within the School of Rehabilitation Therapy programs at Queen's University reflect this structure through our wide variety of rehabilitation-based degree program offerings.
Area school districts benefit from HCDE's occupational, physical and music therapy services supplied through our professionals.
Gene therapy is showing promise for treating one of the most common. a.
OT in Profile 2018 Barbara Sexton Lecture. Presented annually, the Barbara Sexton Lectureship recognizes innovation and excellence in occupational therapy teaching. Each year a distinguished speaker is invited to deliver a public presentation as part of the Evidence-Based Practice Conference.
Building on the expertise of Vunjak-Novakovic's lab in biomaterials and hydrogels,
Importance of Healthy Routines The Well Elderly Study was based on fresh insights from occupational. in the School of Medicine and a co-author of the study, adds: "The uplifting thing is to go in with this innovative therapy and get.
In addition, he has worked as a consultant for other speech therapy. Area.
Welcome! Symposium_2018_flier_(002).pdf. Tufts University Graduate School of Arts & Sciences Online Certificate Program in Advanced Professional Study in School-Based.
Lisa Wick, an elementary-school teacher from Minnesota. So her team helps.
Online OT evaluations are supported by the American Occupational Therapy Association (AOTA). Since 2009,
According to NYU Silver School of Social Work Professor. can access treatment that is brief and home-based," he said. Brain-gut connections The treatment consists of a form of cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) that teaches.
Trying to keep school costs in check is demanding greater attention. noting that the majority of it relates to occupational and physical therapy costs, as well as.
Aetiology, signs, symptoms and treatment of trigeminal neuralgia | Clinical | Nursing Times
VOL: 100, ISSUE: 15, PAGE NO: 36
Sharon Wood, MSc, RGN, DipHealthcare Research, IHBC Body Massage, is lecturer in nursing, University of Leeds
The primary symptom of TN is pain of a neuropathic nature (Box 1) with both chronic and acute elements (Crombie and Davies, 1999). The clinical hallmark is a sudden, excruciating, repetitious attack of unilateral facial pain - known as a paroxysm - in the distribution of one or more branches of the trigeminal nerve (Fig 1, p38). It is often precipitated by trivial mechanical stimulation such as touch, eating, washing, shaving, brushing the teeth, or talking (Meglio et al, 2000; Olesen, 1988). The condition is chronic, and over time the pain intensifies, episodes become longer and more frequent, and the pain spreads to larger areas of the face (Kitt et al, 2000).
The severe intensity of successive recurrences may incapacitate the patient and even the fear of an impending attack may prevent the patient from performing some activities. Sjaastad et al (1997) found that patients avoided or adapted certain activities such as:
- Pushing solid food with the tongue to the unaffected side and trying to use only the teeth on that side for biting and chewing;
- Not brushing the teeth on the affected side during the worst periods;
- Not washing the forehead/eye area.
As a result of avoiding certain activities patients may experience poor oral hygiene, weight loss, and a reluctance to socialise (Jensen et al, 2003). In addition they may experience depression and anxiety as a result of the overall impact chronic pain has on their lives.
The trigeminal nerve, or fifth cranial nerve, emerges from the base of the brain (pons) and possesses both sensory and motor fibres. It is one of the largest nerves in the head and has three main branches, which are distributed to different areas of the face (Fig 1, p38), and is responsible for sending the impulses of touch, pain, pressure, and temperature from the different areas of the face to the brain (National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke, 2001). The paroxysm of pain usually occurs unilaterally, most commonly on the right-hand side of the face, although in 3-4 per cent of patients it can occur on both sides simultaneously (Jensen et al, 2003). The pain is usually localised along the maxillary or mandibular branch or both, and is occasionally felt along the ophthalmic branch (Costa, 1998).
It is estimated that the prevalence of TN is one per 1,000 of the population (Jensen et al, 2003), with an average age of onset of 50. The condition appears to be more common in women, and incidence increases with age (Kitt, 1999). There are few epidemiological studies of TN, and its long-term prognosis, impact on psychological well-being, morbidity and comorbidity for patients is therefore largely unknown (Zakrzewska and Patsalos, 2002).
The aetiology and pathophysiology of TN remain unknown. It is hypothesised that the pain is caused by compression of the trigeminal nerve at its entry into the pons, and that this leads to demyelination - the loss of the myelin sheath (Jensen et al, 2003). In turn, demyelination results in the transmission of abnormal pain messages so that the patient experiences neuropathic pain.
Compression of the trigeminal nerve can be due to a number of factors including tumour (10 per cent of patients), pressure from blood vessels, aneurysm or multiple sclerosis, while causes of damage to the myelin sheath include nerve injury, shingles or post-herpetic neuralgia, trauma, infection, degeneration of the teeth or jaw, and the ageing process (Jensen et al, 2003). If the patient has a lesion, multiple sclerosis or other conditions that can cause neuropathic pain in the trigeminal nerve, the TN is said to be secondary or symptomatic, rather than primary or idiopathic (Melzack, 1992).
Although little research has been undertaken on the subject to elicit a comprehensive list, a range of possible risk factors has been associated with TN, including:
- Non-alcohol user;
- Not having undergone tonsillectomy;
- Familial clustering, although reports are contradictory for this (Jensen et al, 2003; Kitt et al, 2000).
There are no objective measures, such as laboratory or pathological tests, available to diagnose TN, and physical and neurological examinations and investigations often yield normal results (Kitt et al, 2000). However, some can be helpful in establishing whether the TN is idiopathic or secondary, and/or determining the extent and location of any nerve compression (Jensen et al, 2003):
- Computerised tomography (CT);
The diagnosis of TN is therefore based on history-taking and assessment. The International Headache Society (Olesen, 1988) suggests at least four of the clinical criteria in Table 1 need to be present to make a diagnosis of TN.
The pain of TN occurs in paroxysms, which can last from several seconds to two minutes and can vary in frequency from several hundred a day to periods of remission lasting weeks or years (Kitt, 1999).
Typically, the pain is sudden in onset, severe in degree and short in duration. Patients use terms such as 'sharp', 'stabbing', 'burning', 'shooting' or 'like an electric shock' to characterise the pain, and describe it as 'unbearable', 'terrible', 'excruciating', and 'intense' (Sjaastad et al, 1997). The pain is so severe that it causes patients to wince, which is why TN is also known as tic. As time progresses the paroxysms can become more frequent and severe.
Patients tend to be asymptomatic between the paroxysms, and are generally pain-free at night. However, some experience a background pain that is dull, aching and continuous (Loeser, 1994).
The McGill pain questionnaire (Melzack, 1992) is suggested as an assessment tool for TN, as it has been shown to differentiate between TN pain and atypical facial pain, and also assesses pain intensity and quality, and psychological distress.
A pain diary can also be used to assess the frequency and severity of attacks, the ability of the patient to perform normal activities, and for monitoring the response to treatments and any adverse effects (Zakrzewska and Lopez, 2003).
The treatment of patients with TN is often challenging (Van Zundert et al, 2003). Medical management remains the first-line treatment for most patients but if this fails to control the pain, or intolerable side-effects occur, surgical management needs to be considered (Van Zundert et al, 2003; Orlandini, 2002).
Anticonvulsant drugs are effective in reducing TN pain for many patients. Their mechanism of action remains unclear but it has been proposed that they decrease pain impulses and produce pain relief by:
- Blocking sodium channels (Jensen, 2002);
- Acting as antagonists on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) mechanism (McQuay and Moore, 1998);
- Suppressing the release of glutamate (Jensen, 2002);
- Raising gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) levels throughout the central nervous system (Teng and Mekhail, 2003).
In the UK carbamazepine is the only anticonvulsant drug licensed for the management of the paroxysmal pain of TN (McQuay and Moore, 1998). It is an established, effective, evidence-based treatment and it is the drug of choice (McQuay and Moore, 1998; Berde, 1997). However, there are side-effects (Jensen et al, 2003; Teng and Mekhail, 2003) that some patients find intolerable (Table 2).
Before carbamazepine therapy is initiated full blood count and liver function tests should be performed. Decreased platelets or white blood cells may occasionally be associated with carbamazepine use and patients should be asked to report any fever, sore throat, rash, ulcers in the mouth, easy bruising and petechial or purpuric haemorrhages. Careful control and monitoring is necessary, especially in older patients (Jensen, 2002).
The drug should be started at low doses and increased following a graduated protocol until pain has been relieved. If relief has not been achieved after six to eight weeks carbamazepine should be discontinued.
Phenytoin is licensed in the UK as a second-line therapy if carbamazepine is ineffective or the patient cannot tolerate an effective dose (McQuay and Moore, 1998). However, it is associated with additional side-effects to carbamazepine and there is no evidence to support its long-term use to treat TN (Jensen et al, 2003). Phenytoin has been replaced with lamotrigine and gabapentin in clinical practice (Jensen, 2002).
Lamotrigine is used as an adjunct to carbamazepine for TN and has been found to be effective with few side-effects. It can also be used as a monotherapy to treat mild pain (Jensen et al, 2003).
Gabapentin is licensed in the UK for generalised neuropathic pain and has been shown to be an effective treatment for other neuropathic pains (Jensen et al, 2003). Some studies of its use with TN have been positive, although the evidence is not conclusive. The main advantage of gabapentin is its relatively benign side-effects, which are usually well tolerated if doses are increased gradually, following a graduated protocol (Jensen, 2002).
Baclofen is used effectively in some patients, either as an adjunct to carbamazepine or as a monotherapy, although there is insufficient evidence for its use in TN (Zakrzewska and Lopez, 2003). It is not licensed for use in TN but has fewer side-effects than carbamazepine (Jensen et al, 2003).
If carbamazepine cannot be tolerated, is ineffective or the patient is awaiting neurosurgery, tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) such as amitriptyline can be used. The side-effects of amitriptyline, which include dry mouth, constipation, blurred vision, tachycardia, urinary hesitancy, orthostatic hypotension, dizziness and tachycardia can be minimised by slow titration of the dosage (Teng and Mekhail, 2003).
Topically administered capsaicin has also been used. However, there is no sound evidence to support its use. Its side-effects include transient burning and erythema and it initially causes a burning sensation followed by anaesthesia. The cream needs to be applied three to five times per day, and this may negatively affect compliance (Teng and Mekhail, 2003).
Other drugs that are sometimes used with the drugs mentioned above include mexiletine, clonazepam, local anaesthetics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, and opioids. But no sound evidence supports their use in TN.
If medical intervention is ineffective or cannot be tolerated by the patient, a number of surgical options exist (Jensen et al, 2003; Kalkanis et al, 2003; Van Zundert et al, 2003; Zakrzewska and Lopez, 2003; Day, 2001; Tronnier et al, 2001; Meglio et al, 2000; Zakrzewska et al, 1999; Costa, 1998), although there is currently no evidence on when surgery should be considered. Surgical intervention can be aimed at three levels (Table 3). However, only microvascular decompression (MVD) causes no destruction of the trigeminal nerve.
The management of TN requires a multidisciplinary approach. Although there is little or no evidence to support their use, some patients report that other treatment options offer some relief. These include acupuncture, distraction techniques, relaxation training, biofeedback, meditation, and physical therapy.
The nurse's role in assessing and managing patients' pain is vital and will vary enormously depending on where the patient is being managed. In the case of patients with TN, their pain is likely to be managed primarily through a specialist unit or pain service, which is multidisciplinary. The nurse is therefore usually a specialist or consultant nurse and will have additional skills to be able to assess and manage pain of a complex nature. The specialist nurse role will vary from service to service but may include specialist assessment techniques, advising on pharmacological interventions and reviews, offering a variety of psychological and physical therapies, and being an educator. It will involve liaison with other health professionals and services.
Patients who are cared for in the community may have their TN monitored by district nurses or practice nurses and again the nurses' skills will vary depending upon the services provided by their primary care trust. The nurse's main role will be that of assessment and ensuring that any changes in the pain are managed appropriately, and when necessary seeking specialist advice.
Nurses in acute care settings need to ensure that appropriate assessment of patients' pain is undertaken and, when necessary, ensure that specialist advice is sought.
The diagnosis, assessment and management of TN is a complex process requiring a multidimensional approach. There are profound gaps in our knowledge of TN and insufficient evidence to support many interventions used to provide pain management in clinical settings. Future research is imperative if the quality of care for patients with TN is to improve.
Working within the Ron Davis laboratory, the selected candidate will perform a variety of scientific experiments and laboratory duties. These include the care and husbandry of the laboratory's mouse colony and dissection of mouse brains to establish primary neuronal cultures for subsequent scientific experiments. In addition, the successful candidate will be part of a team involved in cell-based screens for small molecules that influence neuronal function as potential drug candidates. The successful candidate will work both independently and in collaboration with other laboratory personnel to include the design, completion, troubleshooting and interpretation of scientific experiments of the type identified above. Other duties and tasks may be required or assigned as needed.
Some experience with mouse husbandry is preferred. The position requires an individual who is well organized, self-motivated, and has high standards of excellence. The individual should be forward thinking and creative with high ethical standards.
Medical University Varna - Study medicine in Bulgaria Lecturers from MU-Varna Took Part in "Summer School on Health Technology Assessment"
Lecturers from MU-Varna Took Part in "Summer School on Health Technology Assessment"
Lecturers from Medical University - Varna took part in Module I of the initiative entitled "Summer School on Health Technology Assessment (HTA)".
On 22nd and 23rd June 2016, the National Centre of Public Health and Analysis (NCPHA), together with the Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical Manufacturers in Bulgaria (ARPharM), organized and held the first training module on critical assessment of clinical trial data. The event enabled all interested parties to enhance their expert capacity in the field of HTA by providing a platform for training and exchange of experience. In addition, two more modules are forthcoming.
The course aims at training participants to identify, interpret, evaluate and apply health studies. The aim is to enable course participants to develop the skills needed to make evidence based clinical and administrative decisions.
A guest lecturer of the two-day programme was Dr. Narinder Kaur Gosall, a world-renowned expert in training medical professionals for acquiring skills to critically assess scientific publications.
The forum was held at the Aula of NCPHA and was opened by its director Assoc. Prof. Dr. Hristo Hinkov.
The management of MU-Varna invests in health technology assessment capacity building at university and national level, in close cooperation with the National Centre of Public Health and Analysis, the Association of Research-based Pharmaceutical Manufacturers in Bulgaria, and a number of other partners.
Two new Frontier Brexit bulletins explore access to EU funding for infrastructure and research | Frontier Economics
Two new Frontier Brexit bulletins explore access to EU funding for infrastructure and research
As the bill authorising Theresa May to invoke Article 50 makes its way through the UK's Houses of Parliament, Frontier (Europe)'s two latest bulletins in its post-referendum series consider the impact that leaving the European Union (EU) could have on access to sources of finance for investment in infrastructure and university research.
At the moment, some of the UK's contributions to the EU budget are returned through various programmes and instruments that support European policy objectives. The bulletins explore issues for policymakers including:
What access, if any, can the UK expect to have from these sources after leaving the EU?
What transition arrangements will be made to protect investment over the period of departure?
How should domestic policy be developed to compensate if these funds dry up post-Brexit?
In Work for the Plumber, we provide an overview of where, why and how EU funding for infrastructure investment is currently coming to the UK, and on what scale. We focus in particular on the role that the European Investment Bank – the world's largest multilateral financing institution – plays in financing infrastructure projects and examine what Brexit could mean for this at a time when the UK government has identified infrastructure as a priority.
In Plugging the gap, we examine the extent to which UK Higher Education Institutions benefit from EU research funds, and whether a boost to research funding from the UK government might make up for any shortfall after Brexit. We also examine the role played by international collaboration in the quality of research and whether this could be affected by Brexit. These are crucial questions given the role that Britain's international reputation for a strong science base plays in attracting research-heavy businesses to locate here, and in the light of the recent Industrial Strategy Green Paper.
Frontier Economics regularly analyses the role of infrastructure and innovation as drivers of growth for private and public sector clients.
mailto:?subject=I recommend a publication at CeON Repository&body=I recommend a publication "Improving productivity in the business of construction" available at CeON Repository [https://depot.ceon.pl/handle/123456789/10538]. Recommend
dc.contributor.author Tamlyn, Snyman
dc.date.accessioned 2016-10-10T08:56:27Z
dc.date.available 2016-10-10T08:56:27Z
dc.identifier.citation T. Snyman, J. Smallwood, Improving productivity in the business of construction, in: A. E. Gudanowska (ed.), 7th International Conference on Engineering, Project, and Production Management, Poland, Bialystok, September 21-23, 2016. Book of abstracts, Bialystok 2016, p. 88 pl_PL
dc.identifier.uri https://depot.ceon.pl/handle/123456789/10538
dc.description.abstract Productivity has a direct impact on profitability and is essential for the success and sustainability of any construction organisation. Consequently, productivity must be effectively managed at top and middle management levels, and not solely at the operational level. The objective of the study was to determine construction organisations' perceptions and practices relative to the productivity of their organisations, as opposed to the productivity of construction activities. The study was conducted among general contracting organisations in the Nelson Mandela Bay metropole in South Africa. Findings include, inter alia, that construction organisations are not fully productive due to the fact that there is a lack of strategic thinking, new technology and construction methods are not being fully utilised, and there is a lack of innovation and efficiency. Construction organisations can optimise their profits by increasing their profit and overhead mark-up on projects, ensuring a positive cash flow at all times, and utilising their resources in the most efficient and cost-effective way possible. Recommendations include, inter alia, that construction organisations should: review the manner in which they conduct business; opt for more advanced methods of construction and utilise new technology, and regularly prepare budgets, use financial indicators to review productivity, monitor cash flow, and review the skills of their employees. pl_PL
Dr. Eger’s research interests focus around the application of ergonomic and human factors principles in industry. She is a leader in the field of occupational vibration and has done seminal work to document whole-body vibration and foot-transmitted vibration exposure associated with surface and underground mining activities. She is also recognized for her research examining the link between working posture, line-of-sight and mobile equipment design. She is an invited member of the International Standards for Organization technical committee concerned with human vibration.
Dr. Dorman completed her Bachelors’ degree in Biology from Guelph University and her doctoral degree from McMaster University in Physiology/Pharmacology; specializing in the area of immunology and respiratory physiology. Overall her research interests focus on health promotion and prevention of disease. This diversifies into three primary themes in the occupational setting: 1) airway physiology, specifically the link between the airways and the cardiovascular system in innate inflammatory responses to inhaled particles from various sources including smoke from forest fires, cigarette smoke, ambient pollution and diesel exhaust particles; 2) nutrition, specifically how Calories consumed supports energy demands on the job; 3) reproductive health in the workplace. Ongoing projects in Dr. Dorman’s laboratory include: a novel method for studying diesel particle matter inhalation in humans (in collaboration with researchers at the Northern Ontario School of Medicine); developing a resource guide exploring reproductive hazards for male workers in the mining environment (in collaboration with Dr. Boudreau-Lariviere); and a pilot studying testing Calorie balance in adventure campers.
As an emerging leader in OHS research, Dr. Godwin has a consistent track record in publishing original research pertaining to line-of-sight and the reduction of fatal injuries in the workplace. Her occupational health and safety interest include developing a portable data collection tool to gather long-term joint loading data in industrial sectors, using methods of functional data analysis to evaluate the effect of fatigue on cumulative loading waveforms and investigating gender differences that occur in manual material handling tasks.
Dr. Pegoraro is the Director of the Institute for Sport Marketing (ISM) and Associate Professor in the School of Human Kinetics. She holds a doctorate from the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and an MBA degree from Laurentian University. Dr. Pegoraro’s research focuses mainly on sport communication and sport consumers, including how different forms of media are used to establish connections with consumers of sport at all levels from amateur to professional. Dr Pegoraro’s work has been published in the Journal of Broadcast and Electronic Media, International Journal of Sport Communication, Communication and Sport, American Behavioral Scientist, Journal of Sport Management, the International Journal of Sport Marketing and Management and the Journal of Sponsorship.
My research area has been in the field of muscle cell physiology where I have focused my attention on a family of architectural proteins known as the plakins which are expressed in muscle cells and thought to play an important structural role in contractile tissue. More recently, I have developed an interest in matters related to occupational physiology and health. Through emerging collaborations with CROSH researchers, my intention is to expand my scope of research in the area of occupational safety and health.
Dr. Grewal brings innovative ideas into the multi-disciplinary field of human-computer interaction (HCI). His work of using the quantitative electroencephalogaphy (QEEG) to measure the user’s cognitive demand during interface use is a first in the HCI field. His experiments have generated publications in the fields of neuroscience and computer science. In 2007, Dr. Grewal formed the HCI Research Group consisting of collaborators from the Neuroscience Research Group and industry partners.
Dr. Legault is a behavioural neuroscientist with a research interest in the relationships between sleeping behaviour and cognition. He investigates basic neurophysiological mechanisms of learning that are thought to occur during sleep. Additionally, Dr. Legault is interested in the consequences of disruptive sleep pathology for the wake time activities that humans engage in. In the context of occupational health and safety, Dr. Legault explores the impact of sleep deprivation and circadian rhythm alterations arising from shift working on cognitive function in the workplace. Dr. Legault’s research is funded by the WSIB, the Ontario Ministry of Natural Resources, and Vale.
A full time faculty member with the School of Nursing at Laurentian University in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada, Judith has over 25 years of nursing experience in a variety of urban, rural and remote clinical settings as Northern Ontario and Ethiopia, East Africa. Her research interests include, quality of work life, healthy workplace environments, health services and policy research, , correctional nursing work environments, and telenursing educational needs. Prof. Horrigan is currently exploring the quality of nurse’s worklife in urban, rural, and remote settings as part of her doctoral studies in Rural and Northern Health.
Behdin Nowrouzi research activities stems from his clinical work as an Occupational Therapist (www.otservicesnorth.com) and his interests are in the area of occupational health, epidemiology, genetics, social determinants of physical and mental health, physical and mental workplace stress, nutrition, obesity in the workplace and return to work issues. Behdin is the founder of Infinity Health Consulting Group (www.infinityhealthconsultinggroup.com) specializing in delivering tailored made solutions to meet the health and safety needs of workplaces. Dr. Nowrouzi applies a multidisciplinary approach to health research, as it brings together a diverse group of individuals from many disciplines with interests in workplace disability and prevention. Furthermore, he believes this diversity provides a varied perspective on decision-making and helps find innovative solutions to complex health problems.
Dr. Michel Larivière is a practicing clinical psychologist whose current research is focused on mental health in the workplace. In particular, he is interested in identifying the factors that predict injury and absenteeism. Drawing from his work in risk prediction, he intends to develop actuarial-type instruments to assist workplace decision-makers on matters of employee injury and illness. Because of their significant human and economic costs, the factors that predict a timely return to work after an illness or injury are also currently being studied by Dr. Larivière.
The results of several large-scale studies on various occupational groups (e.g. health care workers, correctional workers, administrators, tradespersons/labourers, etc.) have been completed and published by Dr. Larivière and a number of collaborators. A unique contribution of this work is the finding that worker attitudes are strong predictors of a workers’ overall adjustment. Attitudinal variables contribute significantly to job stress, job satisfaction and the commitment to one’s employer. These are in turn related to overall health and putatively, to injury, workplace adjustment, performance, absenteeism, presenteeism, and civility.
Stephen Ritchie is an Associate Professor in the School of Human Kinetics at Laurentian University. He is also a faculty investigator at the Centre for Rural and Northern Health Research, the Centre for Research in Occupational Safety and Health, and he is a core member of the Evaluating Children’s Health Outcomes Research Centre. He is active in a diverse portfolio of research, using diverse methods, with a variety of teams, including several research collaborations with Indigenous communities in rural and remote locations.and a doctoral candidate in the School of Rural and Northern Health. He has also worked in the outdoor field on and off for over 35 years as a guide, teacher, facilitator, and more recently as professor. Over the past 15 years, he has taught a variety of senior level undergraduate courses. Prior to his arrival at the university, Stephen spent six years consulting in the private sector working onsite for several large corporations at various locations across Canada.
As an avid outdoorsman, Stephen has international mountaineering experience scaling peaks throughout Canada, the United States, Alaska, Mexico, and in the Himalayas. He has also canoed, kayaked, and rafted throughout Canada on turbulent whitewater rivers, and he has led several long backcountry wilderness expeditions in some of the most remote regions of Canada. Stephen resides in Sudbury Ontario with his wife Nathalie and their two children Tristan and Ixta. And when he is not too busy with his teaching, research, climbing, or paddling adventures, he can be found lounging on the bank of the Aux Sables River in northern Ontario.
Dr. Nancy Lightfoot is an epidemiologist trained in community health with interest in issues relevant to rural and northern health; environmental health (e.g., emergency preparedness for, and health effects of, wildfires; other types of emergency preparedness; recreational water quality; environmental health policy); risk factors for various chronic diseases; occupational health (e.g., quality of worklife; recruitment and retention of health care professionals; risk factors for chronic diseases; mortality and cancer incidence surveillance); and medical ethics. Some of her current studies include studies of the respiratory health and emotional impact of wildfires, and community preparedness for wildfires; client satisfaction with the Sudbury satellite congenital heart disease clinic and impact of long distance travel for care; and mortality and cancer incidence in nickel workers.
My research interests lie at the intersection of biology and engineering. Specifically, I seek to experimentally characterize the mechanical and failure behaviours of biological tissues and systems, and then simulate those behaviours using finite element method (FEM) modeling. This information can then guide injury prevention and mitigation strategies.
Dr. Roth’s research interests include: the auto industry (Canada), occupational health and safety, social class, working class consciousness, social stratification, sociology of work, education and work, nationalism.
Elizabeth’s research interests lie in the areas of physician performance, continuing medical education/professional development, health human resources planning, professional governance and program evaluation. Her current research activities investigate the factors that influence practice performance throughout a physician’s career, particularly focusing on understanding the relationships between performance, the practice environment and continuing professional development.
Dr. Gagnon gained knowledge in the field of occupational health and safety from working at the Finnish Institute of Occupational Health from 2010 to 2014. He has been an Assistant Professor in the School of Human Kinetics at Laurentian and a member of the Centre for Research in Occupational Safety and Health since 2015. His work involves investigating the effects of environmental factors and temperature on human metabolism in various populations. From his work, he is particularly looking into: 1) the use of fat and sugar during cold and warm exposure during physical work and how it relates to fatigue, 2) the influence of working in cold and warm conditions on the immune system, and 3) how oxygen availability and use is altered under thermal stress during physical work.
The COBRA (Tin Block) engine is undoubtedly the most unique concept used in any or the Crosley cars and trucks.
It was during the summer of 1943 that Powel Crosley Jr first heard or an all steel stamped, copper hydrogen brazed engine. Paul Klotsch, chief engineer of Crosley Motors Inc, soon was visiting Lloyd M. Taylor of Taylor Engines Inc, California, the inventor of the engine. The horsepower, fuel consumption and other performance data was so outstanding Crosley took an exclusive license under all patents.
Before the end of the war the Navy became interested in the lightweight high output of the engine and six engine generator sets were built, which ran at 5000 RPM developing 35HP. Crosley and the Navy performed exhaustive tests including running one engine continuously for 1200 hours.
The Crosley engine easily won the contract, meeting or exceeding all specifications. The Armed Services used the tin block engine for air drop able self contained generators, generators for PT Boats, amphibs and many other places, that lightweight power plants were needed.
Some civilian uses, other than the Crosley Automobile from 1946 to early 1949, were truck refrigeration, boats and the Mooney Mite airplane.
The COpper BRAzed engine had a bore of 2.5 by 2.25 stroke to keep piston speed down at high RPM, this gave a displacement of 44 cu in. Military version ran compression ratios as high as 9 to 1 on 100 octane fuel for maximum of 36HP at 5600 RPM (.8HP per cubic inch displacement). The 1946 car engine had a lower compression ratio of 7.5 to 1 and horsepower was reduced to 26.5 at 5200 RPM.
A vertical shaft with bevel gears was used to drive the overhead camshaft instead of a more conventional chain drive so that the lubricating oil could be fed up through it to pressure feed the cam bearings.
The crankcase was made out of cast aluminum alloy and held the crankshaft in 5 main bearings giving a very strong lower unit for the COBRA. The 4 cylinder block was constructed out of about 125 steel stamping. The pieces were held together by press fit, spot welds or crimping before brazing. The block is then copper brazed in a specially constructed 60 foot long furnace at 2060 degree F in a neutral atmosphere. The hardness of the alloy steel was controlled by the speed of cooling. The finished block weighs an extremely light 14 pounds. Inside, the water jacket was first plastic coated, later blocks had a zinc coating on the inner liners.
Comparing the pre-war 2 cylinder engine and the copper brazed engine shows the weight was reduced from 188 to 133 pounds and horse power was increased from 12.5 to 26.5.
Crosley showed the durability of his new engine by filling a block with water and freezing it solid without cracking the block.
Dependability was poor on the early engines that Crosley put in his cars. The engines were essentially the military version with slightly improved valve trains. Used on the road at variable speeds put different demands on the engine than the constant speed that they were used at in generator sets.
By 1947 the COBRA was reasonably dependable. If serviced properly the engine was good for 60,000 miles or so. Low water was probably the COBRA's worst enemy, causing burnout, warping and water leaks. The other problem plaguing the engine was rust out in the water jacket caused by electrolytic action when the plastic or zinc inner liner broke down, this was further aggravated by salt based antifreezes that were in wide use at the time.
Early in 1949 Crosley changed to the cast iron block CIBA (cast iron block assembly) having the same horsepower and displacement at an increase of about 30 pounds in weight.
RELEASE: New CBC Hospital Overcrowding Data Should Compel Much More Substantive & Urgent Response from Ford Government: Health Coalition - Ontario Health Coalition
Connect | Newsletter | Donate
Home
About Us
Donations
Volunteer Opportunities
Newsletters
Contact Us/Local Health Coalitions
Key Issues Index
COVID-19 (Coronavirus)
Cuts + Restructuring
Home Care
Hospitals
Local Health Integration Networks
Long-Term Care / Chronic Care
Mental Health
National Issues / Federal-Provincial Relations
Ontario Budgets
Primary Care
Privatization
Public-Private Partnerships
Retirement Homes
Taxes
RELEASE: New CBC Hospital Overcrowding Data Should Compel Much More Substantive & Urgent Response from Ford Government: Health Coalition
Posted: January 22, 2020
(January 22, 2020)
Toronto – Responding to the CBC’s release of new Ontario hospital overcrowding data that shows the majority of the province’s hospitals have been operating at gravely unsafe levels of overcrowding for more than a month out of the most recent six months measured, the Ontario Health Coalition reported that the data should spark outrage. One-third of Ontario’s hospitals hit levels of overcrowding that are higher than those deemed a “humanitarian crisis” by the Red Cross in the U.K. The numbers are unparalleled in any jurisdiction we have seen in the developed world, says the Coalition, which has organized mass protests over the last year of thousands of patients, front-line hospital nurses, professionals, support workers, doctors and advocates, calling for a stop to the cuts and restoration of services. The Coalition released its pre-budget report this week. The report adds to the CBC data by using national health care database figures to calculate Ontario’s ranking compared with other provinces and international jurisdiction in terms of hospital funding and hospital capacity. The data is available here.
The Coalition expressed anger that the provincial government and hospital leadership continue to use the same rhetoric to cover for cuts that hospital-cutting governments have used for the last 25 years. Coalition spokesperson Natalie Mehra said that too little is being done address the suffering of patients who cannot access care. This situation is a result of provincial government choices that have adopted the most radical hospital downsizing of any jurisdiction in Canada or among our peer nations as cornerstone health restructuring policy for decades.
“The Ford government and hospital leaders continue to make false claims that even more patients can be offloaded from hospitals to other (cheaper) levels of care. This is unconscionable given the suffering we are already seeing and given the data that irrefutably shows that Ontario’s hospitals are being run at levels of overcrowding that are dangerous and inhumane,” said Natalie Mehra, executive director of the Ontario Health Coalition. “Far from “ending hallway medicine” the Ford government has adopted the same tired excuses and rhetoric to cover for cuts and downsizing as the previous government while the situation has measurably worsened. This is not a partisan issue. It is unsound public policy that has created a crisis in patient care that must be addressed urgently by reopening closed beds and wards, reopening Operating Rooms that are closed because there is not enough funding for them, and restore funding to improve care.”
In its pre-budget data run released this week the Coalition found that:
Ontario hospitals have 14,320 fewer hospital beds staffed and in operation compared to the average of other provinces in Canada. (Aggregate per person beds.) Our province has the fewest hospital beds left per person of anywhere in the country. Yet there are closed wards and even entire floors in hospitals across the province due to funding constraints and bed cuts are continuing even today.
Ontario has fallen in rankings compared to all OECD countries in the number of hospital beds staffed and in operation per capita. Ontario ranks third last and the only countries with fewer beds are Chile and Mexico.
Ontario has the least nursing care per patient of any province.
Ontario funds its hospitals at the lowest rate of any province, which has led to the most radical hospital downsizing in Canada.
Ontario funds all of health care at the second lowest rate of any province.
Ontario’s wait list for long-term care beds has climbed to more than 36,200 over the last year.
The Fiscal Accountability Office of Ontario released a report in October projecting that once the 15,000 long-term care beds that the Ford government promised to build in 5-years are complete, the long-term care wait list will have increased to 37,000 due to the increase in the elderly population needing care. Note: not even the first 100 of those promised beds are built yet.
The Coalition warns that privatization is not a solution. Private residential care is beyond the means of even higher income Ontarians and many private residential care facilities are entirely unregulated with dubious safety and user charges that are both exorbitant and violate the Canada Health Act. Private home care is also extremely expensive. Private hospitals and clinics charge user fees that range from two to five times the cost of OHIP-covered services, according to two major surveys of private clinics’ pricing done by the Ontario Health Coalition. Privatization would yield a whole new array of suffering and user fees, undermine regulatory regimes that protect patients from harm, draw public funds away from care to profit-taking and increase costs.
The Coalition notes that the evidence demonstrates the need to restore public hospital funding to the average of the rest of Canada and to rebuild capacity, including reopening acute and complex continuing care hospital beds, reopening Operating Rooms as soon as possible and developing a real evidence-based capacity plan to meet population need for hospital care.
Click here for printable version
OHC Events
View the OHC Events Calendar
Health System Facts + Trends
OHC Store
Shop online for OHC products
Ontario Health Coalition
T. 416.441.2502
E. ohc@sympatico.ca
15 Gervais Drive, Suite 201,
Toronto, Ontario M3C 1Y8
About OHC
The Ontario Health Coalition is a network of over 400 grassroots community organizations representing virtually all areas of Ontario.
The timesheet review and approval process begins after a staffer submits a timesheet. It's then reviewed and approved or rejected, which means the timesheet is sent back to the staffer for corrections. This article explains the timesheet review and approval workflow and your many options within it.
The timesheet review and approval workflow,
Activating timesheet review and approval, and
The many people, roles, and departments that can review and approve time.
Ensure all time is reviewed and approved before it's billed or reimbursed. The timesheet workflow is optional, but it's a safeguard against small but costly errors, like logging time to the wrong client or project.
Choose from several review and approval workflows. You decide who'll review and approve timesheets. Examples include managers, financial admins, team roles, and departments.
Set up billable/non-billable approvals to streamline the approval process. Managers and team leads can approve submitted time for the same individual.
ACTIVATE REVIEW AND APPROVAL
Decide how you want your staff to review time. Navigate to MY COMPANY...PENDING APPROVALS to make your selection, such as "don't review/approve time" or "review by project team." Once this step is complete you can view hours that are pending review.
Premier users can choose up to three levels of approval (primary, secondary, and final), located on the Pending Approvals window. For each approval level, select approver from three categories: Simple, Departments, or Team Roles.
TIMESHEET REVIEW AND APPROVAL WORKFLOW
The review and approval process typically takes place over a day or two. It follows a specific path:
Submitted. Staffers kick off the review and approval process when they submit their timesheets. This submission verifies the timesheet is complete and authorizes it to be reviewed. Now the timesheet waits for managerial approval. Learn how to set up your timesheet.
Rejected. During the review process, the manager may make corrections directly to the timesheet or he may reject it: sending it back to the staffer to make changes. Managers can explain why the staffer's timesheet was rejected.
A rejected timesheet will show up in the staffer's time entry page. A red flag will also appear in the notification footer (at the bottom of that page), asking the user to review and resubmit the rejected time.
Resubmitted. A staffer reads the comments from the manager, corrects the timesheet, and resubmits it. The timesheet is reviewed again.
Approved. Approval is the final step in the workflow. It certifies that the timesheet is accurate and ready to be used elsewhere, like payroll and invoicing.
Use BigTime's notification system to stay on top of the process. Notices are turned on by default, and will keep your staff informed with approved or rejected time. Make adjustments to these notices on your MY COMPANY...NOTIFICATIONS page.
TIMESHEET REVIEW AND APPROVAL OPTIONS
You decide who reviews and approves timesheets. The section that follows examines your many options.
Billable/non-billable approval streamlines the review and approval process by enabling team leads and managers to review time for the same staffer.
Here's how it works. Staffers log time to a project. Billable hours are filtered to the project's team lead, who sees and approves or rejects the hours. Non-billable hours are filtered to the manager, who sees all submitted time (both billable and non-billable). However, the manager can only approve non-billable hours, like vacation time.
There are three steps you need to have in place in order to use this feature. First, create a project team lead. Second, create an internal project and indicate that it's non-billable. Third, identify a manager for the project and grant him/her managerial rights over a specific department.
Have your financial admin review and approve time by granting the user the "Financial Administrator" permission. Activate this permission by navigating to My Company...User Rights. Select a security group and click ON next to Financial Administrator. Then, click Save at the end of the window. Users assigned to a security group with this right can post data to your accounting system, review financial transactions, and override approvals.
Think of department as a category that your staffer works in. Engineering, Media, and Account Services are examples of departments.
Be sure to indicate which staffers are in which departments, if you want timesheets reviewed at the department level. Navigate to the Staff Dashboard (My Company...Staff List) and click on a staffer's name. Make the department selection on the Basic Info tab. Learn how to add or edit departments.
Use "team roles" to identify the different positions on your team, such as creative director or project manager. Make these selections on the Team tab on your Project Dashboard (My Company...Project List and click into a specific project). In the image below, Ben's role on the team is Creative Director and Jason's is Project Manager.
Users can approve their own time and expenses. By default managers can't approve their own time or expenses, but you can change that. Allow managers, or anyone else, self-approve their time by activating the permission "Approve Personal Time/Expenses."
Navigate to My Company...User Rights and select a security group. Click On next to the user right, Approve Personal Time/Expenses.
If your firm would like to review/approve timesheets at the project level, you can set up the system to review by project. First, you'll need to set up a Project Team and one or more team leads. Then, your BigTime admin grants the leads the right to review and approve timesheets for other team members on the project. Learn more about how to customize user rights.
Have a manager review a staffer's timesheet based on your org chart by choosing to activate review and approval by department. This workflow involves assigning each staff member a department and then configuring managers for those departments.
