Psychotherapy Eases Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Study Says - The New York Times
Research|Psychotherapy Eases Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Study Finds
Research Psychotherapy Eases Chronic Fatigue Syndrome, Study Finds
By DAVID TULLERFEB. 17, 2011
A new study suggests that psychotherapy and a gradual increase in exercise can significantly benefit patients with chronic fatigue syndrome.While this may sound like good news, the findings — published Thursday in The Lancet — are certain to displease many patients and to intensify a fierce, long-running debate about what causes the illness and how to treat it.Many patients, citing two recent high-profile studies, believe the syndrome may be caused by viruses related to mouse leukemia viruses, and they are clamoring for access to antiretroviral drugs used to treat the virus that causes AIDS. That treatment is very expensive and would be expected to continue indefinitely, and health insurers are not generally willing to pay for untested drug regimens.The new study, conducted at clinics in Britain and financed by that country's government, is expected to lend ammunition to those who think the disease is primarily psychological or related to stress. Continue reading the main story
The authors note that the goal of cognitive behavioral therapy, the type of psychotherapy tested in the study, is to change the psychological factors "assumed to be responsible for perpetuation of the participant's symptoms and disability."
In the long-awaited study, patients who were randomly assigned to receive cognitive behavioral therapy or exercise therapy, in combination with specialized medical care, reported reduced fatigue levels and greater improvement in physical functioning than those receiving the medical care alone — or getting the medical care along with training in how to recognize the onset of fatigue and to adjust their activities accordingly.
The cognitive and behavioral interventions outlined in the new study are a series of sessions continuing for several months. The researchers are expected to address the cost-effectiveness of the treatments in another report. (Several of the study's authors reported financial ties to the insurance industry.)By contrast, the idea that a viral infection is responsible for chronic fatigue syndrome, also called myalgic encephalomyelitis, has been proposed at least since early outbreaks were investigated in the mid-1980s in the United States. Although studies have shown that many patients with the disease have elevated antibody levels for several viruses, no causal role has been proved for any of them. Health officials in the United States are coordinating studies to determine why the mouse leukemia viruses were found in patients in two studies but not in several others.
A major difficulty with conducting studies on the syndrome is that there are several different ways of defining and identifying the illness. These variations have led to a wide range of estimates of its prevalence.Patient groups and some researchers have challenged the criteria used by the British investigators as likely to include many people with depression, which often causes severe fatigue. They also note that the study excluded patients who could not get to treatment centers, most likely ruling out some of the sickest patients. And at least one survey has found that exercise therapy can significantly worsen many patients' symptoms.
A version of this article appears in print on February 18, 2011, on Page A17 of the New York edition with the headline: Researchers Say Psychotherapy Eases Chronic Fatigue, a Finding Unlikely to Satisfy. Order Reprints| Today's Paper|Subscribe
Recruit employees to be part of a safety committee. People on the committee should be responsible for evaluating current safety conditions, suggesting new safety measures to management and letting other employees know when safety measures have been violated.
‍People who report to work under the influence of illegal drugs cost their employers twice as much in workers' compensations claims than workers who do not use drugs. If you don't already have a pre-employment drug screening program in place, now is the time to implement one. You don't want to be known as the employer of choice for drug abusers. You are also within your rights to implement random drug testing as long as your employees are aware of the possibility. When an employee has an accident, he or she should submit to a drug test as soon as possible. This is standard procedure to determine whether the accident was caused by impaired judgment from drug use or unsafe conditions at the business.
A strong relationship got build up in between the organization and its employees if an employer will take care of their health & safety. It is only possible when the workers are treating by them equally or as a human being. No discrimination is follow as rich or poor. The companies should provide best facilities of safety & health to its employees and at the time of employees’ recruitment, nothing should be hiding from them. All risk & terms are clearly states to them at that time especially in risk bearing factories.
AC1.1 In Health and Social care organizations: review systems, policies & procedures used in communicating & maintain the Health & safety at work in accordance to legislative requirements.
Health and Safety at work Act, 1974: It is the legal legislative, which pass by the government of United Kingdom. In this all those executive those are working for taking care of Health & safety of the others at their workplace, they work upon this aim with some of the strong bodies / authorities. They take care of those crowds of people who work as the diver, coalmines, working at top (height) and areas those are surround with radiations and harmful chemicals. Their purpose is to follow and consider that all the employers are following these legislatives in their workplace. (Ambulance, 2011).
Health & safety Offences Act, 2008: It is follows by the organizations that take care about their workers safety and these safety rules are taken care by the company’s trade unions under the safety committee regulations. Operational manager appointed by the company to take their training & states all the risks related with employment before recruiting them. Otherwise, it is punishable by the court.
Employment Medical advisory service act, 1972: This act will provide all the facilities of the medical examination of the workers by the organizations. Young people and women are getting this facility throughout the employment period. Doctor appointed by the factory or associated with some hospital that is on the panel of the factory & these medical facilities are given.
The above two are perform by the owners, managers, Line Mangers and the third is by the person who is the face of the organization in providing these benefits.
3. Mental health Care Act 2007: It implies on the population of the UK those are suffering from the Mania disease. This act passed by the government in 1983 and was revise in 2005 and last in 2007. Here all medical facilities and health care with social groups are given to these types of patients.
AC1.3 2.2 Analyse the health & safety priorities that are important to Mr. W’s health and wellbeing. In relation, analyse the impact of one aspect on health & safety policy on Mr. W and health & safety practice.
There are variant problems that may face by the social care that is risk on the management of the care home. An effective approach follows in the health and the social care base on the two methods Quantitative & Qualitative. These include the performance of the staff those offer medical or other services to the patients and evaluation of health hazards, if any. Especially in the case of the psychiatrist patient may commit suicide. There are certain policies in the favour of the health of the patients those mentioned in the legislatures of the country are strictly adhering by the care home. As the above health & safety policies are states for the concern of the people at their work place the same implies in the hospitals and the Home cares also. A proper medication & treatment is requiring for Mr. W. These types of patients handled with care & patience. Under the Mental act 1983 either they are admitted to the hospital or taken care by the relatives and nearby authorities. K is appointed to take care of Mr. W. she is professionally trained to handle such situation that arose in front of him. Patients generally forget everything and not in their senses. Under sec 117 in after care services K has sent at Mr. W’s home (Stranks, 2010). The authorities give the treatment to these patients at their home without charging any fees from them directly. If they sent patients to caring homes then they only pay fees to these homes on behalf of patients. Now here in this case study, under the policy of mental act 1983 the local authorities acts as a guardian and K is appointed by them as a guardian for Mr. W. If any of the relative of Mr. W comes and does objection in the treatment then they have to consider his opinion. It is the responsibility of K to take care & mange all matters according to the welfare of Mr. W. An approach of PCP (person centre approach) is an appropriate suitable for handling the patient of mental disable. It is started by the government in 2001 and provides medications in improving the patient capability in their learning.
AC1.2 Draw your organizational chart using this as a guide; assess the responsibilities in a specific health & social care workplace for management of health & safety in relation to organizational structures.
Using Vaginal Microbiome to Predict Cervical Cancer Risk | Newsroom | Albert Einstein College of Medicine
The human papillomavirus (HPV) causes cervical cancer in only a small proportion of women infected by the virus. To better understand why those women develop cervical cancer, Robert Burk, M.D., and colleagues focused on women participating in an HPV vaccine trial in Costa Rica. They looked for features of the cervicovaginal microbiome associated with cervical precancer.
In a paper published online on March 26 in PLOS Pathogens, the researchers reported that elevated levels of the bacterium Gardnerella vaginalis can be detected in the cervix years before precancerous cells develop and is associated with elevated microbial diversity of the vaginal microbiome and with cervical precancer. They also found that having elevated levels of Lactobacillus species, as well as increased diversity of certain fungi, may suppress the elevated vaginal microbial diversity associated with Gardnerella vaginalis and prevent the subsequent progression to cervical precancer. The findings suggest that assessing the vaginal microbiome could help identify those women at higher risk for maintaining a persistent HPV infection and developing cervical cancer. The findings could especially help women living in developing countries that have not adopted the HPV vaccine and where cervical cancer remains a public health burden.
Dr. Burk, the paper's senior author, is professor of pediatrics, of microbiology & immunology, of epidemiology & public health, of obstetrics & gynecology and women's health at Einstein, and an attending physician at Montefiore. First author is Mykhaylo Usyk, B.S., M.S., a senior bioinformatics analyst in Dr. Burk's lab.
Esophageal Cancer: Chemotherapy - Medical Center of Aurora
Multiple trials of chemotherapy for esophageal cancer have produced up to a 50% response rate. However, the responses are short-lived and have neither cured nor improved long-term survival. Response rates do not differ between squamous cell and adenocarcinoma.Chemotherapy Drugs Used for Esophageal CancerPractically every type of chemotherapeutic agent has been used to treat esophageal cancer. Among the more successful are:
Cisplatin is used alone for esophageal cancer and in combination with paclitaxel to treat advanced disease. Due to its lower toxicity, carboplatin is being tested as a substitute for cisplatin in this combination.Possible side effects of platinum coordination complexes include:
AntibioticsCommon name: mitomycin (Mutamycin)Mitomycin is used alone or in combination to treat esophageal cancer.Possible side effects of anticancer antibiotics include:
AntimetabolitesCommon name: 5-fluorouracil (5-FU)5-FU is one of several chemotherapeutic agents commonly used to treat carcinomas. It can be used alone or in combination.Possible side effects of antimetabolites include:
Paclitaxel combined with cisplatin or carboplatin is a favored regimen for treating esophageal cancer. It produces complete disease regression in about 25% of patients with Stage III disease. Large studies to support its superiority over other chemotherapy drugs have not been performed.Docetaxel works similarly to paclitaxel and appears to be at least as effective.Possible side effects of taxanes include:
Vindesine and vinorelbine are newer derivatives of vinblastine that appear to be effective even when vinblastine and vincristine are not.Possible side effects of vindesine and vinorelbine include:
DNA Topoisomerase InhibitorsCommon name: irinotecan (Camptosar)This type of drug damages DNA during cell replication. Since cancer cells replicate faster than healthy cells, the effect is concentrated in tumor tissue. Irinotecan has shown promise in single agent treatment of esophageal cancer and in combinations.Possible side effects of irinotecan include:
Headaches And Dizziness With Ms - Vertigo
Headaches And Dizziness With Ms
Vertigo, likewise known as lightheadedness, is a family member term to the more familiar vertigo, also referred to as nausea or vomiting. A sensation that your whole body is disoriented and moving in a weird method. The lightheadedness begins instantly, without cautioning as well as is generally for brief time periods. Vertigo, like dizziness, is really frightening and also is the primary symptom of various conditions that influence the mind, from hypertension to fainting. Headaches And Dizziness With Ms
Benign positional vertigo (BPV) is probably one of the most common reason for vertigo, the feeling that the interior of your head or that your whole body is turning oddly. Normally this is accompanied by light-headedness, queasiness, vomiting, collapsing, and also a sensation of detachment from your surroundings. BPV commonly triggers only short episodes of wooziness, generally no more than 10 minutes. It is usually brought on by muscle spasms or by an absence of blood circulation to the nerves in the internal ear. Nevertheless, some people have no symptoms in any way. Headaches And Dizziness With Ms
The majority of cases of lightheadedness are triggered by one or more of the conditions that influence the mind and also interfere with its capability to work correctly. If you are experiencing signs and symptoms that you think are vertigo, your medical professional will most likely recommend antihistamines or tricyclic antidepressants as therapies for these problems. Antihistamines decrease the activity of the chemicals in the body that trigger the reaction that triggers vertigo. Tricyclic antidepressants are made use of to deal with allergic reactions, anxiousness, and also other comparable problems. Headaches And Dizziness With Ms
Particular medications may likewise create vertigo. Doxycycline can reduce the toughness of your muscle mass that sustain your balance. This decreases the amount of fluid in your mind that causes your lightheadedness. Other drugs that may include doxycycline are Prednisone, Acetylcholine, Phenytoin, as well as NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs).
Vertigo that does not improve with non-prescription treatment can be treated by your doctor. These therapies consist of prescription medications, surgical treatment, and antihistamines. If your wooziness is severe, your medical professional might advise you to have a committed echocardiography system or VASER (vesicular stentibular valve stimulation) procedure. This treatment makes use of a laser to open the tightened capillary that trigger the wooziness. The laser may also reduce the quantity of liquid accumulation in your brain that triggers lightheadedness.
Some individuals have troubles with wooziness without therapy. In these instances, it is very important to determine why you experience the signs and symptoms. Your medical professional may need to do examinations such as an MRI or CT scan to recognize the underlying problem. He might also carry out some simple research laboratory examinations in order to dismiss or verify the diagnosis.
Several of the causes that might result in lightheadedness include a problem called sensorineural hearing loss. This problem takes place when there is damage to the inner ear. This can be caused by an ear infection, an injury, or a negative effects of certain medications. Various other reasons can be high fevers, ear infection, meniere's illness, Meniere's syndrome, or vestibular nerve cells.
If you are experiencing dizziness, you must make note of where your lightheadedness is affecting your balance. You need to additionally understand if the modifications in equilibrium are taking place for a long period of time or if they are just taking place in a brief amount of time. This will aid your physician to identify the source of vertigo and likewise the proper therapy. If you believe that your dizziness is due to a lack of balance, you need to consult your physician. Your health care professional will have the ability to supply you with important info regarding vertigo and also how you can manage the symptoms.
In order to figure out the exact reason for vertigo, your healthcare professional will certainly most likely have you undergo a complete exam to eliminate any underlying physical reasons. Among the most common sources of dizziness is reduced high blood pressure or high blood pressure. If you have been detected with either of these conditions, you should follow your medical professional's orders and also stay with your normal drug. By decreasing your high blood pressure, your wooziness could be gotten rid of. Your condition might require treatment to lower your blood pressure naturally.
One more common source of vertigo is experiencing hearing loss. As we age, our hearing ends up being much less effective, which may result to vertigo. If you have actually been experiencing wooziness without any various other symptoms, it might be hard to identify the issue. As soon as you begin experiencing any type of type of audio or sound in your ear, you ought to quickly call your physician.
Some signs that can suggest the visibility of a vestibular migraine headache consist of: nausea or vomiting, vomiting, faintness, and also fainting. Due to the fact that these signs and symptoms can be integrated, your medical professional might carry out tests to confirm the visibility of vertigo. If your symptoms correspond, your doctor might execute added tests such as catheterizations, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and computerized tomography (CT) scan.
Nov Female Fitness & Nutrition Plan
Nov Female Fitness & Nutrition Plan 3.5 out of 5 based on 27 ratings.
Health + Fitness. Health + Fitness; Diet + Weight Loss; Nutrition; Easy Workout Routines;.
Nov 8, 2018 16 Secrets of Women Who Never Diet Maintaining a healthy weight ≠ dieting.
This Beverly Hills-based fitness trainer hasn't just mastered the art of taking a picture-perfect belfie—she's honed in on exactly which exercises lift her booty, to the delight of her more than.
We're not there to ogle: why gyms should never be women-only – I can't recall ever having heard somebody commenting on how they don't go to the gym because of men (or women, for that matte.
How Quitting My Strict Diet and Finding a Workout I Love Helped Me Lose 45 Pounds – How I changed my diet: "After I was diagnosed with PCOS, I was so frustrated trying to figure out a healthy diet. I read so m.
7 Day Detox Diet Plan Fruits And Vegetables – 7 Day Flat Belly Tea Detox 7 Day Detox Diet Plan Fruits And Vegetables Best Detox Cleanse For Women Recipe Herbal Cleanse Detox For Marijuana How To Do A Healthy Detox Cleanse
New Year Detox: Back to fitness – But, as I've gotten older, I have realized that it's a time in the year when we have the opportunity to reflect and plan ahea.
An Anti-Inflammatory Diet Plan Diabetes Smart Tips Living Well with Rheumatoid Arthritis Living Well with Colitis or Crohn's Manage Your Child's ADHD Mood, Stress and Mental Health Talking to Your Doctor About Hepatitis C Talking to Your Doctor About Psoriasis Talking to Your Doctor About Rheumatoid Arthritis Your Guide to Diabetes Management Your Guide to Headache and Migraine.
Karen Ficarelli\'s Fitness4Her is a Women\'s Fitness, Diet and Exercise program designed for women to help you lose weight & Empower The Beauty In You! Fitness4Her.
With that in mind, here are five mistakes to avoid: 1— Vow to lose weight by exercising more If weight loss is your goal, exe.
Every year since 2006, the American College of Sports Medicine (ACSM) have conducted a survey to predict future health and fi.
Avg Chad Mureta – App Empire 2.0 Chad Mureta has decided to make a limited number of spots in the App Empire 2.0 program available. What that means is that there are only so many seats left and for anyone that wants to be a part of App Empire 2.0 they need to act quickly. This is a review page for App
Health & Fitness Products; Home & Garden Products.
sensible exercise and an easy-to-follow nutrition plan. This full week of meals will take the guesswork out of grocery shopping and prepping.
The mission of the College of Technology is to prepare the technology leaders of tomorrow for global industry and commerce.
Deliver high quality education that leverages the intellectual curiosity of individuals to serve their chosen professions and society at large;
Function as a leading resource for the life-long learning needs of traditional and nontraditional students; and
Enable underprivileged and underrepresented segments of society to fully participate in the rewards of technology.
The College of Technology is focused on key areas in technology and merchandising that have the power to improve products and operations, and that are in high demand by businesses and organizations around the world. These include construction, computer, mechanical, electrical power, logistics and computer information systems as well as consumer sciences, merchandising and organizational leadership.
The College of Technology has been part of the University of Houston for over 70 years and is well-known in the community for its contributions to the education of traditional and nontraditional students. The faculty play a leading role in providing and guiding the implementation of high quality, leading-edge technology education in Texas and in the nation. Our graduates are often leaders in their fields and are employed all over the world.
The College of Technology is organized as four departments: Construction Management (CM), Engineering Technology (ET), Human Development and Consumer Sciences (HDCS), and Information and Logistics Technology (ILT). The faculty of these departments are involved in a wide spectrum of scholarly activity. Research in the Department of Construction Management aims at improving performance of the construction industry and our civil infrastructure systems through innovative methods in project delivery, estimating, planning, project control, quality management, safety, modeling, visualization, and decision making. Research in the Department of Engineering Technology focuses on the management and conservation of energy sources, heat transfer, materials and manufacturing, computer aided design, construction materials, surveying, environmental issues, neural networks, biotechnology, applications of fuzzy logic, control theory and applications, power quality, and high frequency amplification, complex fluids and flows, tissue engineering, biological and medical imaging and image analysis. Faculty in the Department of Human Development and Consumer Sciences conduct research extending theory and best practices into industry ready experiences for consumer science, foresight, human resource development and retailing.
Faculty research in the Department of Information and Logistics Technology is concentrated on improving education in the areas of technology literacy, internet security, supply chain management, data warehousing, grid computing, project management, distance learning, and graphic communications education.
Computer resources in the College of Technology support students and faculty in teaching/learning, research, development, and administration. Computer facilities housed in the college include:
Special purpose computer-based facilities such as the computer-aided manufacturing laboratory, the PC networking laboratory, the Graphic Communication Technology Laboratory, and the Advanced Applications Development Laboratory.
The College of Technology will use your UH E-mail alias as the primary means to contact you and keep you informed on important university information and information from your faculty and department. For additional information on your UH E-mail alias, please contact the IT Support Center at 713-743-1411 or go online to www.uh.edu/infotech.
is an honor society for students majoring in Human Development and Consumer Sciences. Prospective members must have earned 42 semester hours (12 semester hours in residence) with a minimum 3.00 cumulative grade point average.
is the honor society for students in the Construction Management major. Prospective members must have attained at least junior class standing and have completed at least 24 semester hours of credit at the University of Houston with a minimum 2.80 cumulative grade point average.
is the honor society for engineering technology majors who have completed a minimum of 24 semester hours in the department of Engineering Technology. Students must have maintained a minimum 3.30 grade point average at this university.
The College of Technology offers opportunities for participation in activities outside the formal classroom structure. Each organization has its own activities and requirements for membership.
Understanding Inclusivity Challenges for Persons with Physical Disability in work Places and Explore Possible Solutions for Same Sub-theme: Management of Culture and Change in a Learning Organisation (Embracing Diversity)
Displaying publications 21 - 40 of 5180 in total
Fulltext Transnasal oesophagoscopy: the feasibility and potential impact on service provision of an office based procedure for upper gastrointestinal disorders in Malaysia
Philip R, Junainah S, Maharita AR
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69(4):162-5.
PMID: 25500843 MyJurnal
A Health Technology Assessment (HTA) was conducted in 2011 to evaluate whether transnasal oesophagoscopy (TNE) should be made available at otorhinolaryngology (ORL) clinics in the Ministry of Health facilities. The safety, efficacy or effectiveness and economic implication of using transnasal oesophagoscopy (TNE) were reviewed. This review provides a summary of the HTA and an updated literature review as well as how this technology might potentially affect services in the Ministry of Health.
Fulltext Assessment of Inter- and Intra-Audiologist Agreements on Auditory Brainstem Response (ABR) Waves Interpretation and ABR Variability
Dzulkarnain AA, Che Azid N
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69(4):156-61.
PMID: 25500842 MyJurnal
AIM OF STUDY: This study investigated the consistency in Auditory Brainstem Response (ABR) waveform evaluations between two audiologists (inter-audiologist agreement) and within each of the audiologist (intra-audiologist agreement).
METHODS: Two audiologists from one of the audiology clinics in Kuantan, Pahang, Malaysia were involved in this study. Both audiologists were required to identify and mark the presence of Waves I, III and V in 66 ABR waveforms. Over a one-month interval, each audiologist was required to carry out the same procedure on the same ABR waveforms. This process was continued until we had three separate reviews from each audiologist.
RESULTS: There was a high inter-audiologist ABR waveform identification agreement (over the range 81.71-89.77%), but a lower intra-audiologist ABR waveform identification agreement (over the range 50%-78%) for both audiologists. Our results also showed a high intra-audiologist ABR latency agreement within 0.2 ms (>90%), but a slightly lower inter-audiologist latency agreement (75-84%) within 0.2 ms.
CONCLUSION: Our results support the need for the clinic to implement further strategies for improving the respective lower agreements and consistencies. These include conducting a continuous education program and using an objective algorithm to support their interpretations.
Study site:; International Islamic University, Malaysia (IIUM) Hearing
and Speech Clinic
Fulltext Kimura's disease of the parotid: A complete clinical-radiological-pathology report
Ragu R, Eng JY, Azlina AR
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69(4):199-201.
PMID: 25500854
Kimura's disease is rare chronic inflammatory disease with a distinct clinicopathological entity. It has three major components; inflammatory, vascular and fibrosis. It has to be considered as a differential diagnosis in young patient presenting with head and neck swelling. Although of unknown aetiology many hypothesis has been postulated. Inflammation is the most prominent and predominating characteristic in this disease. Although reported to be predominant in Asian literature regarding this disease is scanty. We report a complete clinical-radiological and pathological picture of this disease.
Fulltext Tuberculosis of the skull mimicking multiple myeloma
Pan KL, Zulkarnaen M
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69(4):197-8.
PMID: 25500853 MyJurnal
There is a resurgence of tuberculosis globally but lesions affecting the skull are rare. Cases reported are of single, focal lesions as seen on plain x-rays. We report a 34 yearold patient with tuberculosis of the skull where multiple punched out lesions are seen, mimicking that of multiple myeloma.
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69(4):151-5.
Fulltext Assessing and treating cardiovascular risk: Traditional moderation is the way to go
Ong HT, Ng DT
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69(4):149-50.
PMID: 25500840
Fulltext A review of schizophrenia research in Malaysia
Chee KY, Salina AA
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69 Suppl A:46-54.
PMID: 25417951 MyJurnal
Research in schizophrenia has advanced tremendously. One hundred and seventy five articles related to Schizophrenia were found from a search through a database dedicated to indexing all original data relevant to medicine published in Malaysia between the years 2000-2013. This project aims to examine published research articles, in local and international journals in order to provide a glimpse of the research interest in Malaysia with regards to schizophrenia. Single case study, case series report, reviews and registry reports were not included in this review. Medication trial, unless it concerned a wider scope of psychopharmacology was also excluded from this review. A total of 105 articles were included in this review. Despite numerous genetics studies conducted and published, a definitive conclusion on the aetiology or mechanism underlying schizophrenia remains elusive. The National Mental Health - Schizophrenia Registry (NMHR) proved to be an important platform for many studies and publications. Studies stemmed from NMHR have provided significant insight into the baseline characteristic of patients with schizophrenia, pathway to care, and outcomes of the illness. International and regional collaborations have also encouraged important work involving stigma and discrimination in schizophrenia. Ministry of Health's hospitals (MOH) are the main research sites in the country with regards to schizophrenia research. Numbers of schizophrenia research are still low in relation to the number of universities and hospitals in the country. Some of the weaknesses include duplication of studies, over-emphasising clinical trials and ignoring basic clinical research, and the lack of publications in international and regional journals.
Fulltext A review of depression research in Malaysia
Ng CG
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69 Suppl A:42-5.
PMID: 25417950 MyJurnal
Depression is a debilitating illness and has become a leading cause of morbidity globally. We aim to summarise the evidence available in regard to the prevalence, type of assessment tools used and treatment options for depression in Malaysia. Two hundred and forty seven articles related to depression were found in a search through a database dedicated to indexing all original data relevant to medicine published in Malaysia between the years 2000-2013. Fifty seven articles were selected and reviewed on the basis of clinical relevance and future research implications. Findings were summarised, categorised and presented according to prevalence of depression, depression in women, depression in clinical condition, assessment tools, and treatment of depression. The prevalence of depression in Malaysia was estimated to be between 8 and 12%. The figures were higher among women of low socio-economic background or those with comorbid medical condition. The common assessment tools used in Malaysia include Beck Depression Inventory (BDI), Depression, Anxiety and Stress Scale (DASS), Patient Health Questionnaire 9 (PHQ-9) and Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale (HADS). They were translated into the Malay language and their psychometric properties were established. Both pharmacological treatment and psychotherapy were commonly used in Malaysia, and were highly recommended in local clinical practice guidelines. There are discrepancies in the reported rates of depression in Malaysia and this needs to be addressed. There were lack of studies looking into the depression among subgroups in Malaysia especially in the male population. There were several instruments available for assessment of depression in Malaysia but their suitability for the local setting need further research. Both pharmacotherapy and psychotherapy were recommended in the local treatment guideline in Malaysia. With the emergence of generic medication, we need to compare their clinical efficacy and tolerability with original products.
Fulltext A review of colorectal cancer research in Malaysia
Lim KG
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69 Suppl A:23-32.
PMID: 25417948 MyJurnal
105 articles related to colorectal cancer(CRC) were found in a search through a database dedicated to indexing all original data relevant to medicine published in Malaysia between the years 2000-2013. 56 articles were selected and reviewed on the basis of clinical relevance and future research implications. Research into the genetic basis for colorectal cancer included studies in germline mutations of known syndromes as well as polymorphisms that conferred individuals a higher odds ratio for developing CRC. Several studies also documented the variety of somatic mutations seen in cases of sporadic CRC in Malaysia. Studies into the knowledge and attitudes of Malaysians regarding CRC revealed poor appreciation of the common symptoms, risk factors and available measures for its early detection. This may explain the observed facts that more Malaysians present with late stage CRC than seen in developed countries. The small amount of data recorded concerning the outcome of treatment also suggests overall survival of Malaysian CRC patients for comparable stage of CRC is lower than achieved in developed countries.
Fulltext A review of breast cancer research in Malaysia
Yip CH, Bhoo Pathy N, Teo SH
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69 Suppl A:8-22.
PMID: 25417947 MyJurnal
Four hundred and nineteen articles related to breast cancer were found in a search through a database dedicated to indexing all original data relevant to medicine published in Malaysia between the years 2000-2013. One hundred and fifty four articles were selected and reviewed on the basis of clinical relevance and future research implications. Overall, Malaysian women have poor survival from breast cancer and it is estimated that half of the deaths due to breast cancer could be prevented. Five-year survival in Malaysia was low and varies among different institutions even within the same disease stage, suggesting an inequity of access to optimal treatment or a lack of compliance to optimal treatment. Malaysian women have poor knowledge of the risk factors, symptoms and methods for early detection of breast cancer, leading to late presentation. Moreover, Malaysian women experience cancer fatalism, belief in alternative medicine, and lack of autonomy in decision making resulting in delays in seeking or avoidance of evidence-based medicine. There are ethnic differences in estrogen receptor status, HER2 overexpression and incidence of triple negative breast cancer which warrant further investigation. Malay women present with larger tumours and at later stages, and even after adjustment for these and other prognostic factors (stage, pathology and treatment), Malay women have a poorer survival. Although the factors responsible for these ethnic differences have not been elucidated, it is thought that pharmacogenomics, lifestyle factors (such as weight-gain, diet and exercise), and psychosocial factors (such as acceptance of 2nd or 3rd line chemotherapy) may be responsible for the difference in survival. Notably, survivorship studies show self-management programmes and exercise improve quality of life, highlighting the need to evaluate the psychosocial impact of breast cancer on Malaysian women, and to design culturally-, religiously- and linguistically-appropriate psycho-education programmes to help women cope with the disease and improve their quality of life. Research done in the Caucasian populations may not necessarily apply to local settings and it is important to embark on local studies particularly prevention, screening, diagnostic, prognostic, therapeutic and psychosocial research.
Fulltext A review of dengue research in Malaysia
Cheah WK, Ng KS, Marzilawati AR, Lum LC
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69 Suppl A:59-67.
PMID: 25417953 MyJurnal
Dengue infection is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in Malaysia. To date, much research on dengue infection conducted in Malaysia have been published. One hundred and sixty six articles related to dengue in Malaysia were found from a search through a database dedicated to indexing all original data relevant to medicine published between the years 2000-2013. Ninety articles with clinical relevance and future research implications were selected and reviewed. These papers showed evidence of an exponential increase in the disease epidemic and a varying pattern of prevalent dengue serotypes at different times. The early febrile phase of dengue infection consist of an undifferentiated fever. Clinical suspicion and ability to identify patients at risk of severe dengue infection is important. Treatment of dengue infection involves judicious use of volume expander and supportive care. Potential future research areas are discussed to narrow our current knowledge gaps on dengue infection.
Fulltext A review of substance abuse research in Malaysia
Norliza C, Norni A, Anandjit S, Mohd Fazli MI
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69 Suppl A:55-8.
PMID: 25417952 MyJurnal
This is a review of research done in the area of substance abuse in Malaysia. There were 109 articles related to substance abuse found in a search through a database dedicated to indexing all original data relevant to medicine published in Malaysia between the years 2000-2013. Only 39 articles were reviewed, and case series, case report, reviews and reports were excluded. Research reviewed include the epidemiology of substance abuse, genetics, treatment and its relation to health behaviour, and health management. Studies have shown that more males than females use drugs. There was also a high prevalence of blood-bourne virus diseases and sexually transmitted diseases among drug users. Two studies showed some genetic polymorphism (Cyp 3a4 gene and FAAH Pro129Thr) among heroin and amphetamine users respectively that may contribute to drug dependence. Study on pharmacological treatment for substance abuse were limited to methadone and it was shown to improve the quality of life of heroin dependant patients. Alternative treatments such as acupunture and spiritual approach play a role in the management of substance abuse. Data also showed that treatment centres for substance abuse are lacking facilities for screening, assessment and treatment for medical illness related to substance use, e.g. Hepatitis C and tuberculosis. Studies on the effectiveness of current drug rehabilitation centres were inconclusive.
Fulltext Bibliography of clinical research in Malaysia: methods and brief results
Teng CL, Zuhanariah MN, Ng CS, Goh CC
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69 Suppl A:4-7.
PMID: 25417946
This article describes the methodology of this bibliography. A search was conducted on the following: (1) bibliographic databases (PubMed, Scopus, and other databases) using search terms that maximize the retrieval of Malaysian publications; (2) Individual journal search of Malaysian healthrelated journals; (3) A targeted search of Google and Google Scholar; (4) Searching of Malaysian institutional repositories; (5) Searching of Ministry of Health and Clinical Research Centre website. The publication years were limited to 2000- 2013. The citations were imported or manually entered into bibliographic software Refworks. After removing duplicates, and correcting data entry errors, PubMed's Medical Subject Headings (MeSH terms) were added. Clinical research is coded using the definition "patient-oriented-research or research conducted with human subjects (or on material of human origin) for which the investigator directly interacts with the human subjects at some point during the study." A bibliography of citations [n=2056] that fit the criteria of clinical research in Malaysia in selected topics within five domains was generated: Cancers [589], Cardiovascular diseases [432], Infections [795], Injuries [142], and Mental Health [582]. This is done by retrieving citations with the appropriate MESH terms, as follow: For cancers (Breast Neoplasms; Colorectal Neoplasms; Uterine Cervical Neoplasms), for cardiovascular diseases (Coronary Disease; Hypertension; Stroke), for infections (Dengue; Enterovirus Infections, HIV Infections; Malaria; Nipah Virus; Tuberculosis), for injuries (Accidents, Occupational; Accidents, Traffic; Child Abuse; Occupational Injuries), for mental health (Depression; Depressive Disorder; Depressive Disorder, Major; Drug Users; Psychotic Disorders; Suicide; Suicide, Attempted; Suicidal Ideation; Substance- Related Disorders).
Fulltext Introducing a collection of reviews on major diseases in Malaysia
Lim KG, Lim AW, Goh PP
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69 Suppl A:1-3.
PMID: 25417945
Fulltext A review of cervical cancer research in Malaysia
Zaridah S
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Aug;69 Suppl A:33-41.
PMID: 25417949 MyJurnal
Despite cervical cancer being potentially preventable, it is the second most common cancer among women in Malaysia. One hundred and five articles related to Cervical Cancer were found in a search through a database dedicated to indexing all original data relevant to medicine published in Malaysia between the years 2000-2013. Fifty seven articles were selected and reviewed for the articles' clinical relevance and future research implications. This article reviews the various aspects of cervical cancer in Malaysia, mainly persistent infection of high risk human papillomavirus (HPV), primary prevention (HPV vaccination), screening method (Pap smear issues), and the attitude and knowledge of various groups of Malaysian women that contributed to the failure to reduce the incidence and mortality of cervical cancer. Most of the studies focused on prevention, Pap smear issues, HPV DNA testing, HPV vaccination and various recommendations for prevention of cervical cancer. Secondary prevention by screening is still an important aspect because even with HPV vaccination, screening still plays an important role as vaccination does not cover all high risk HPVs. There is a need to seriously consider a properly organised screening programme, taking into consideration what we already know about the attitude and knowledge of Malaysian women, economic factors and psychosocial issues of the screening method. There is also a large gap in clinical studies on the outcome, management and survival of cervical cancer patients in Malaysia.
Fulltext Cholinergic deregulation in traumatic brain injury could be a pathophysiology-related biphasic epiphenomenon
Bimpis A, Baillie GS, Zarros A
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Jun;69(3):148.
PMID: 25326361
Fulltext A ten-year retrospective analysis of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors (GEP-NETs) in Malaysia
Gunavathy M, Rohana AG, Norlela S, Nor Azmi K
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Jun;69(3):133-7.
PMID: 25326355 MyJurnal
Fulltext Two-incision three-port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. A feasible and safe technique
Leow VM, Faizah MS, Mohd Sharifudin S, Letchumanan VP, Yang KF, Manisekar KS
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Jun;69(3):129-32.
PMID: 25326354 MyJurnal
OBJECTIVE: Conventional laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) involves the use of four ports, but the number of ports has gradually been reduced to one for cosmetic reasons. however, single-incision LC is technically demanding, and there is a substantial learning curve associated with its successful application. The aim of this clinical study was to evaluate the safety and feasibility of a less demanding alternative LC technique with a faster learning curve.
METHODS: This prospective descriptive study was performed from September 2009 to February 2011 at Sultanah Bahiyah hospital in Kedah, Malaysia. A total of 58 patients underwent two-incision threeport laparoscopic cholecystectomy (TILC), which was performed by the senior consultant hepato-pancreato-biliary surgeon and two hepato-pancreato-biliary trainees. Study end points included operative time, postoperative pain, length of hospital stay and early postoperative complications. The follow-up period was 4 weeks.
RESULTS: The overall operative time taken was 44 ± 18 minutes. none of the patients had major complication or incisional hernia postoperatively. All but one of the patients were discharged within 24 h. nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs were the main postoperative analgesic used.
CONCLUSION: TILC is feasible and safe cholecystectomy technique.
Fulltext Acute gout in hospitalized patients in Sarawak General Hospital
Teh CL, Chew KF, Ling GR
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Jun;69(3):126-8.
PMID: 25326353 MyJurnal
We performed a prospective study of all hospitalized patients with a diagnosis of Gout in Sarawak General hospital from 1st July 2011 to 1st July 2012. There were a total of 126 patients in our study of which 112 (88.9%) were males. The majority of our patients were from the indigenous populations (71.7%). They have a mean age of 60.0 ± 14.2 years. Most of our patients were overweight (68%) with comorbities of hypertension (78.6%), Chronic Kidney Failure (48.4%), Type II diabetes Mellitus (30.2%), dyslipidemia (27.8%) and Ischaemic heart disease (11.9%). Polyarticular gouty arthritis was the main presenting pattern during hospitalization (88.1%). The mean length of stay for our patients was 9.8 ± 6.0 days which was significantly longer than the mean length of stay for other patients without gout (p<0.05). Only 17 patients had gout on admission and the majority developed gout during hospitalizations. Our patients were admitted respectively for medical problems (45.4%), surgical problems (28.6%) and orthopaedic problems (9.2%). Colchicine (73.8%) and steroid (40.5%) were the main stays of treatment for our patients. Our hospitalized gout patients were complicated patients with multiple comorbidities.
Fulltext Chemotherapy extravasation at Hospital Pulau Pinang, Malaysia
Tan AL, Phua VC
Med J Malaysia, 2014 Jun;69(3):124-5.
PMID: 25326352 MyJurnal
PURPOSE: Extravasation with intravenous chemotherapy is a common complication of chemotherapy which carries the risk of devastating complications. This study aims to determine the rate of extravasation with intravenous chemotherapy in a major hospital where chemotherapy is delivered in various departments other than the oncology department.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: All patients who underwent intravenous chemotherapy in the oncology department and surgical wards in Penang General hospital from 1st February 2008 till 31st June 2008 were recruited retrospectively for this study to look at the rate of extravasation.
RESULTS: A total of 602 patients underwent intravenous chemotherapy during this period. Fifty patients received chemotherapy in the general surgical ward while another 552 patients received chemotherapy in the oncology department. There were 5 cases of extravasation giving an overall extravasation rate of 0.8% (5/602). however, 4 of these cases occurred in the general surgical ward giving it a rate of 8% (4/50).
CONCLUSION: The rate of extravasation in our hospital was 0.8%. however, this rate can be significantly increased if it is not done under a specialized unit delivering intravenous chemotherapy on a regular basis. Preventive steps including a standard chemotherapy delivery protocol, staff and patient education must be put in place in all units delivering intravenous chemotherapy.
KU Medical Center braces for furloughs – Kansas Health Institute
By Andy Marso | June 04, 2015 Print
Photo by University of Kansas Hospital Officials at the University of Kansas Medical Center say they will try to protect student education, time-sensitive research and clinical care as the possibility of furloughs approaches.
