In 2018, almost 7,700 older adults (aged 65+) were killed in traffic crashes, and more than 250,000 were treated in emergency departments for crash injuries.2 This means that each day, more than 20 older adults are killed and almost 700 are injured in crashes.
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Injury Prevention and Control. Web-based Injury Statistics Query and Reporting System (WISQARS). Atlanta, GA: CDC; 2018. Available at: cdc.gov/injury/wisqars. Accessed 10 November 2020.
Insurance Institute for Highway Safety (IIHS). Fatality facts 2018, Older people. Arlington (VA): IIHS; 2018. Available at: https://www.iihs.org/iihs/topics/t/older-drivers/fatalityfacts/older-people/2016external icon. Accessed 30 November 2020.
News - RapidArc™ Radiotherapy - Cancer Patients | Saint Clare's » Saint Clare's
Home / Saint Clare's Health System to Offer Cancer Patients Faster, Ultra-Precise Radiotherapy Using RapidArc™ Radiotherapy Saint Clare's Health System to Offer Cancer Patients Faster, Ultra-Precise Radiotherapy Using RapidArc™ Radiotherapy
New Technology from Varian Medical Systems Delivers Faster Image-Guided Intensity-Modulated Radiotherapy (IMRT) to Better Target Tumors While Sparing More Healthy Tissue
Cancer patients in Northwestern New Jersey now have access to more enhanced options for cancer care at Saint Clare's Health System, with the addition of a fast, precise form of radiotherapy using the advanced technology from Varian Medical Systems. The new RapidArc radiotherapy technology, which delivers highly-precise, image-guided radiotherapy treatments two to eight times faster than conventional radiotherapy, is now operational at the Cancer Care at Saint Clare's outpatient center in Denville.
"Saint Clare's is excited to add RapidArc to an already robust radiation therapy program here at Saint Clare's. Our patients will benefit from this major advance that improves dose conformity, while significantly shortening treatment times," said Medical Director, Donald Cann, MD.
The Saint Clare's Health System's RapidArc technology will deliver image-guided IMRT (intensity-modulated radiation therapy) very quickly, often with a single rotation of the treatment machine around the patient. "RapidArc is much easier on the patient," says Dr. Cann. "It's hard for people to hold still for long periods of time, but patient movement can compromise the accuracy of a treatment. By delivering doses more quickly, we can simultaneously improve the quality of care and make our patients more comfortable."
RapidArc treatments will be delivered using a medical linear accelerator from Varian Medical Systems, outfitted with an On-Board Imager® kV imaging system for generating and using images to guide patient placement and treatment delivery. The linear accelerator rotates around the patient to deliver the radiation treatments from nearly any angle. During a RapidArc treatment, the radiation is shaped and reshaped as it is continuously delivered from virtually every angle in a 360-degree revolution around the patient. The beam shaping will be accomplished using an important accessory called a multi-leaf collimator (MLC), a device with 120 computer-controlled mechanical "leaves" or "fingers" that can move to create apertures of different shapes and sizes. During a RapidArc treatment, specialized software varies three elements of the radition treatment simultaneously: the speed of rotation around the patient, the shape of the MLC aperture, and the dose delivery rate.
"By reducing the time it takes to deliver IMRT and other precise forms of radiation therapy, RapidArc has the potential to improve the quality of care and of patient comfort for many types of cancer, while making radiation oncology a more affordable treatment. That is a huge win for everybody," says radiation oncologist, Dr. Timothy Chen. The American Cancer Society estimates that, in the State of New Jersey, there are almost 50,000 new cancer patients diagnosed every year.
Cancer Care at Saint Clare's, fully accredited, with commendation, by the The American College of Surgeon's Commission on Cancer, is a comprehensive oncology program offering a full complement of screening, diagnostic, and treatment services. Utilizing the most advanced screening and diagnostic tools, including PET/CT and digital mammography; the most current treatment technologies, including TomoTherapy® Hi-Art, image guided radio therapy, Mammosite, and robotic surgery; as well as the most advanced chemotherapy and access to clinical trials.
Northern Arizona Healthcare is known for expertise in imaging. At each of our conveniently-located imaging locations, we perform your testing with your physician’s concerns in mind. That way, you receive precise diagnostic results for a wide range of diseases and conditions, which may help you avoid invasive surgical procedures.
Did you know?
Northern Arizona Healthcare’s advanced technology can perform around-the-clock imaging anywhere in our hospitals.
Verde Valley Medical Center’s cutting-edge CT scanner reduces radiation exposure by an average of 60 percent.
Our 3-Tesla, or 3T, magnetic field strength equipment offers the highest quality MRIs available in Northern Arizona.
Our nationally-registered ultrasonographers perform a variety of procedures, including comprehensive breast biopsies, thoracentesis and paracentesis exams.
Copyright © 2022 Northern Arizona Healthcare. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Statement
Terms of Use
Notice of Non-discriminatiON
Facebook
We use cookies to measure marketing efforts and improve our services. Please review the cookie settings and confirm your choice.
Implementation Science – I-TECH
Category Archives: Implementation Science
Describing Adverse Events within VMMC Programs at Scale
I-TECH works diligently to review and revise procedures to identify, manage, and report adverse events (AEs). I-TECH's previous publications on AEs reveal efforts to maintain high quality programming and emphasize patient safety alongside achievement of targets.
An evaluation published in the Journal of the International AIDS Society found that AEs were uncommon, with 0.3% of surgical and 1.2% of PrePex (a non-surgical VMMC device) clients experiencing a moderate or severe AE. However, the evaluation also found that younger clients were at greater risk of infection.
Increasing Understanding on the Timing and Type of AEs in Routine VMMC Programs at Scale
As VMMC expands in Sub-Saharan Africa, I-TECH works to ensure program quality matches efforts to increase program productivity. I-TECH ensures patient safety through patient follow-up to identify and treat AEs. The timing of routine follow-up visits in MC programs is designed to ensure patient safety by identifying, treating, and managing complications. Although routine follow-up timing may differ by country, in Zimbabwe, three follow-up visits are scheduled to ensure quality service provision and patient care: Visit 1 (Day 2); Visit 2 (Day 7); and, Visit 3 (Day 42).
I-TECH's implementation science efforts use routine data collected from clients with AEs and has found that AEs followed distinct patterns over time. Using these findings, ZAZIC has been improving VMMC care by 1) improving counseling about MC complications following initial visits for clinicians, clients, and caregivers ; 2) distributing wound care pamphlets to clients and caregivers; and 3) emphasizing follow-up tracing for younger boys, ages 10-14, and their caregivers to provide additional targeted, post-operative counseling on AE prevention.
Increasing AE Ascertainment through Routine Quality Assurance Efforts
To further increase ascertainment of AEs, I-TECH recently conducted a quality improvement (QI) initiative to improve provider identification and reporting of AEs. ZAZIC Gold-Standard (GS) clinicians prospectively observed 100 post-MC follow-ups per site in tandem with facility-based MC providers to confirm and characterize AEs, providing mentoring in AE management when needed.
The QI data suggested that AEs may be higher and follow-up lower than reported and ZAZIC's Quality Assurance Task Force is replicating this QA study in other sites; increasing training in AE identification, management, and documentation for clinical and data teams; and improving post-operative counseling for younger clients. Additional nurses and vehicles, especially in rural health clinics, are currently being trained and leveraged to further improve client follow-up and AE ascertainment.
ZAZIC undertakes weekly, monthly, and quarterly data quality audits (DQA) to ensure data correctness and completeness. Intensive DQA processes were documented and availability and completeness of data collected before and after DQAs in several specific sites was assessed with the aim to determine the effect of this process on data quality. ZAZIC found that after the DQA, high record availability of over 98% was maintained and record availability increased. After the DQA, most sites improved significantly in data completeness and ZAZIC continues to emphasize data completeness to support high-quality program implementation and availability of reliable data for decision-making.
Caryl Feldacker, Implementation Science, Male Circumcision, Scott Barnhart, Zimbabwe
I-TECH Shares Research at CUGH 2018
March 14, 2018 baldwl
Logo courtesy of the Consortium of Universities for Global Health (CUGH): https://www.cugh.org/.
Representatives from the International Training and Education Center for Health (I-TECH) are headed to New York for the 9th Annual Consortium of Universities for Global Health (CUGH) Conference. The conference—held on March 16-18, with satellite sessions on March 15—will be co-hosted by Columbia University, Stellenbosch University, and the University of Peradeniya.
Featured speakers include Richard Horton, Editor of The Lancet, and Natalie Kanem, Deputy Executive Director of the United Nations Population Fund.
Building on the theme of "Health Disparities: A Time for Action," staff and faculty from I-TECH will be presenting on the following topics:
King Holmes, MD, PhD, founding chair of the Department of Global Health and a co-Principal Investigator of I-TECH's IAETC award, will join a morning plenary session and discussion about global health disparities. The discussion will be moderated by Director of the Fogarty International Center Roger Glass. Dr. Holmes will be joined for the discussion by Rose Leke, Gairdner Foundation Global Health Committee member and Emeritus Professor at Universite de Yaounde, and K. Srinath Reddy, President of the Public Health Foundation of India.
Kate Wilson, PhD, Clinical Assistant Professor, is presenting a poster titled "Evaluation of a New Field Epidemiology Training Program (FETP) Intermediate Course to Strengthen Public Health Preparedness in Tanzania." The locally adapted course significantly improved trainee knowledge and skills in field epidemiology, and the evaluation also showed evidence of improvement in data quality and performance at trainees' workplaces and districts.
Lindsay Mumm, MPA, Program Manager, is presenting a poster titled "Creating Relevant Change towards Reaching the UNAIDS 90-90-90 Target with High-Impact Leadership Training – Afya Bora Fellowship in Global Health Leadership."
In addition to the research being shared at CUGH, I-TECH was represented earlier this month at the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections (CROI) in Boston. Nancy Puttkammer, PhD, MPH, presented a poster titled "Multi-Month Scripting (MMS) and Retention on HIV Antiretroviral Therapy (ART) in Haiti." The retrospective study used data from the iSanté electronic medical record system in Haiti and found promising results that MMS for ART in virally suppressed patients improved retention and engagement in treatment.
About CUGH
The mission of CUGH is to build interdisciplinary collaborations and facilitates the sharing of knowledge to address global health challenges while promoting mutually beneficial, long-term partnerships between universities in resource-rich and resource-poor countries, developing human capital and strengthening institutions' capabilities to address these challenges. Read more about CUGH: https://www.cugh.org/.
Established in 1993, The Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections (CROI) was provides a forum for scientists and clinical investigators to present, discuss, and critique their research. The goal of the conference is to provide a forum for researchers to translate their laboratory and clinical findings into tangible progress against the HIV pandemic. Read more about CROI: http://www.croiconference.org/.
Haiti, Health Information Systems, HIV Care and Treatment, Implementation Science, Integrating Research and Practice, Nancy Puttkammer, Tanzania
Strengthening Regional Training Centres in South Africa
I-TECH is supporting Regional Training Centres (RTCs) across provinces to increase their capacity to coordinate in-service trainings, with an emphasis on reaching the 90-90-90 targets.
Ann Downer, eLearning/Distance Learning, HIV Care and Treatment, Human Resources for Health, Implementation Science, Nursing/HCW Cadres, South Africa
Key Populations Sensitization Training for Health Care Workers in South Africa
I-TECH South Africa aims to increase uptake of HIV prevention, care, and treatment services by key, at-risk populations, in order to improve primary care.
Deepa Rao, HIV Care and Treatment, Human Resources for Health, Implementation Science, Key Populations, South Africa
One good thing | ConductDisorders - A soft place to land for battle weary parents.
Discussion in 'General Parenting' started by susiestar, Jan 6, 2010.
Probably the one good thing we have gotten from the current (2nd) neuro is lamictal. I asked Jess if she thought it was helping. She is at 100 mg/day.
She says for the first time EVER her days are not really short and she doesn't have the feeling that she is "missing time". She has fought the missing time for a long time. It is a symptom of the absence seizures.
We estimate now that she has gained about 2 hours of awareness per day. I think she will get even more when we get the dose adjusted again.
I had not realized how much the keppra wasn't working. I am really resenting all the money we spent on keppra when it was not even a first line medication for this type of seizure. It is sort of like going to the doctor with an infection and getting imitrex. A good medication but NOT one that will treat the problem, so paying for it is a waste.
We spent almost 3 YEARS on keppra because the doctor told us that it and topomax are the ONLY options. She cannot tolerate the topomax. Finding out about more options makes me MAD. Esp if I think about all the sprains and strains of her ankles and knees because she falls. If she is walking when a seizure hits she falls. Period. So most of the time at least one knee or ankle is sore and tender. GRRR.
The neuro we first saw may be ranked as the "top neuro in the state for peds" according to several reviews but that is simply not true in our case.
Either that or he was just using her as a guinea pig for research. He has used her EEG for teaching purposes because he said it was unique and interesting.
Did you know that docs can use your test results for research and teaching, and even use blood and tissue samples for research WITHOUT your consent? Once a test is done you have no legal right to stop them from using your results or leftover fluids/tissue/samples for research.
Docs and labs make obscene amounts of money from this. ALL they have to do is not use your name. Period.
I think many docs fall into this temptation and use us as guinea pigs with-o telling us.
susiestar, Jan 6, 2010
I'm glad Jess is doing better on Lamictal. I have three kids who take this medication, and it really has done wonders for them. I hope she continues to make improvements.
I feel very strongly that parents need to research all the medication options and discuss the medications their children are taking with their children's doctors. If their children are not improving, they need to push for new options or a second opinion with a new professional.
I think you are confusing teaching and research. My father is a retired physician, and he frequently used slides from his procedures and interesting cases to teach medical students and fellows about his specialty.
On the other hand, I take my girls to an endocrinologist at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Maryland, which obviously is a premier research facility in this country, and we (parent and children) needed to sign release forms that all information from their cases could be used for research. I think that is standard practice in this country.
smallworld, Jan 6, 2010
I am glad she is getting some help from the Lamictal.
I agree with Smallworld in the need to do your own research. Personally, I don't trust any doctor unless I research what they recommend. I learned this the hard way after seeing a nationally recognized doctor who didn't handle our daughter's case as well as his reputation would predict.
Unfortunately, your Jess has an unusual illness and it is probably going to take some trial and error to figure out what works best. The trick is figuring out how long to try something without wasting time but still giving it a chance.
I hope you continue to see improvement on the Lamictal.
Josie, Jan 6, 2010
When Cory had his shoulder and spine surgery at age 4, we were told that his case was going to be written up in a medical text book because it was so rare. They werent going to use his name of course, but he did have his surgery at a major teaching hospital and he surgery was done by a leading orthopedic surgeon who dealt with rare disorders. It didnt bother me one bit.
DammitJanet, Jan 6, 2010
The blood disorder husband died of was so rare that at the time of his diagnosis he was one of only 473 sufferers world-wide.
He never had any problems with his info being shared. In fact, because his disease basically involved his T-Cells mistakenly killing off his other stem cells, there are stem cell lines still growing in Israel and a couple of other places.
I think it's great that not only is research going on into MDS using his cells, but the research info can be applied to AIDS as well. An in, how to find chemicals, etc that could help STRENGTHEN t-cells in AIDS sufferers.
I think it's kind of cool. It makes me feel like husband still lives on in a very real way.
GoingNorth, Jan 6, 2010
I'm glad its helping. Hope it continues.
While I agree with others that research and education is good, I think I understand you're frustration....you maybe wonder if you're doctor used Jess to "try something" instead of really trying to fix her problem with a more common or known solution - without asking you're ok to be that guinea pig. And that would light a fire in my tail, too.
Health Equity and Racial Justice | Prevention Institute
Health equity means that everyone has a fair and just opportunity to attain their full health potential and that no one is disadvantaged, excluded, or dismissed from achieving this potential. At Prevention Institute, we focus on how structural drivers of inequity—such as racism, sexism, and income inequality—impact communities. And we support community-based organizations and advocates in building power and capacity to change the systems that created these inequities in the first place.
Racial justice is a primary focus of Prevention Institute's health equity work because racism, discrimination, and other forms of racial injustice have resulted in dramatic health and safety disparities for communities of color. Without closing racially unjust gaps in health outcomes, we will not be able to achieve health, safety, and wellbeing for our nation as a whole.
Our work is implemented through partnerships and collaborations with coalitions, public health departments, and community-based organizations; and centers the lived experiences of communities whose voices have been historically excluded and underrepresented. We bring our tools and frameworks to inform and build capacity toward effective prevention, racial justice, and health equity strategy development. Our staff are our champions who bring both professional and personal experience to the table and help shape equity solutions that support community health, safety, and wellbeing
Centering Equity & Justice in Rebuilding the Nation's Public Health Infrastructure
The Big Cities Health Coalition (BCHC) and Prevention Institute, with support from the Skoll Foundation, are developing a playbook for rebuilding a public health system, rooted in racial equity, that builds on COVID-19 lessons and experiences.
Prevention Institute serves as strategic advisor for the Convergence Partnership, providing staffing and guidance on strategy development and policy analysis. The Convergence Partnership is a national funder collaborative working to transform policies, practices, and systems to advance racial justice and health equity.
This concept paper explores how and why to bring together people working on health equity and racial justice, including understanding the tensions between these two approaches, recognizing shared goals, and identifying five strategic opportunities for collaboration.
CompanyBriefs July 2014 - McKnight's Long Term Care News
» HD Supply Facilities Maintenance has opened a new distribution center in Tampa, FL, making it the 44th center in the United States and Canada. There are additional Florida distribution centers in Jacksonville, Lakeland, Miami and Orlando.
» Connecticut-based Revera Health Systems announced it has selected Linked Senior for its 29 facilities. The technology will help the communities improve quality of care for residents, and use tablets and kiosks for programming, the company said.
» Drive Medical Limited has bought certain product lines of Days Healthcare from Patterson Medical Limited. The acquisition includes long-term care beds, scooters, powered and configured wheelchairs, recliners and other items.
» The California Association of Health Facilities has renewed its Preferred Provider relationship with COMS Interactive. The extension of the agreement beyond the original three-year partnership will allow members access to disease management software, including Daylight IQ.
» PointClickCare has introduced two new embedded INTERACT™ (Interventions to Reduce Acute Care Transfers) tools for its core EHR platform, NH Hospital Transfers Rate Tracker ™ and eINTERACT™ QI Review of Hospital Transfers. eINTERACT is a joint initiative between PointClickCare and Florida Atlantic University. The eINTERACT tools, which currently include integrated Stop and Watch™ alerts and automated Hospitalization Transfer Rate Tracking™, are designed to boost communication between senior care organizations and hospitals.
» It's Never 2 Late has partnered with TranslaCare to introduce an augmentative and alternative software technology to help adults with acquired speech-language disabilities. Iconotouch™ by TranslaCare™ is software with a simple interface that is specifically designed for those who have had a stroke, dementia or other neurological disease or any acquired communication deficit to express themselves.
Treatment of Allergic Conjustivitis Ii - Medicomat Hunter 4025 NLS Hunter.Healthcare
Treatment of Allergic Conjustivitis Ii - Positive Effects Quantum Headset
Tai Chi Chuan is an ancient Chinese martial art, which is practiced in slow motion. It is a solo form designed to not only teach self-defence but also generate Chi, your bodys natural energy. The regular practice of Tai Chi Chuan can help keep you health and youthful. Classes are approximately one hour.With traditional acupuncture treatments, are increasingly applied ELECTROACUPUNCTURE, elektropunktura in the last few years laser acupuncture. Electroacupuncture deep electro introduced through the needle. Elektropunktura to Voll actually is a method that is performed using devices called EAV organometar, developed by a German dr.R.Voll. It is also used for therapy and diagnostics.
Pain Treatment Robot, Treatment of Allergic Conjustivitis Ii and Medicomat Relief Methods. Detection is based on electrodermal measuring principle. When an organ has pathological change, bioelectric resistance of corresponding auricular point decreases, Medicomat apparatus will alarm indicating abnormal orgon through microelectronic detector. It reminds us going to hospital earlier for further examination.Arthritis can take many forms, whether it is Osteoarthritis, a debilitating disease that affects over 27 million people in the US alone, or Rheumatoid Arthritis, a chronic inflammatory disorder that affects just 1 percent of the world's population.
Confusion is a change in mental status in which a person is not able to think with his or her usual level of clarity. Frequently, confusion leads to the loss of ability to recognize people and or places, or tell time and the date. Feelings of disorientation are common in confusion, and decision-making ability is impaired.You can bring your child in for an acupuncture visit to maintain their health, for a physical symptom, or for a behavioral problem. One common problem that frequently responds quite well to several acupuncture visits is the problem of bed-wetting. Some children have the problem disappear after one acupuncture visit; others may require a few more visits.
Electronic Quantum Automat, Treatment of Allergic Conjustivitis Ii and Medicomat Medical Automat. Can cancer patient use the machine? Yes, he can. From pathology, cancer patient is poor at immune ability. By using the machine, it dredges the meridians and collaterals, regulating qi and blood, balancing yin and yang, resuming normal function of pathological location, achieving the aim of prevention and cure of disease, keeping health and physical therapy. Then the progress of cancer will be controlled to a certain degree.
While we have always made the protection of your data a top priority for our business, the new General Data Protection Regulation required us to make some changes in the way we manage your information, as well as develop new functionality to allow you to be compliant when you share your presentations.
‍We have been working tirelessly to ensure we work according to the new GDPR rules enacted by the European Union.
As both a data controller and a data processor, we not only strive to be compliant ourselves, but provide you the tools to be compliant if you manage prospects or leads in the European Union.
Confirming Consent to contact our users
We have initiated a massive effort to confirm the permission to contact our leads and users via email.
Use of cookies in our website
We have published a list of all the cookies used by our website for its normal functioning, performance tracking and marketing purposes.
updated terms of use and PRIVACY POLICY
A new version of our Terms of Use and our Privacy Policy was released on May 25th.
Updating or removing your records
We now offer the option request an update, export or complete removal of data associated with your account.
GDPR-compliance for presentation insights
Users sharing presentations or collecting emails from prospects in the EU are considered Data Controllers under GDPR regulation.
We have pushed an update with the tools to be compliant with the information they collect.
STRENGTHENING data protection
We enacted new strict policies about where we store and how we manager personal data. More details will be published in the coming weeks.
A Day With A Kenyan Billionaire Behind Mwale Medical And Technology City In New York/Mr Julius Mwale technology city - Abigaelelizabeth.com
Home » A Day With A Kenyan Billionaire Behind Mwale Medical And Technology City In New York/Mr Julius Mwale technology city
A Day With A Kenyan Billionaire Behind Mwale Medical And Technology City In New York/Mr Julius Mwale technology city
See also Best Friends Videos of Studio C studio c technology
**Nothing I state, share, express, or allude to should be considered professional advice or recommendations of action. This channel is intended for educational and entertainment purposes only. All content contained within is all just my own opinion and experience. Consult a professional for travel related questions you may have. .
See also How to Install Android Studio on Windows 10 studio c technology
Search related to the topic A Day With A Kenyan Billionaire Behind Mwale Medical And Technology City In New York/Mr Julius Mwale
#Day #Kenyan #Billionaire #Mwale #Medical #Technology #City #YorkMr #Julius #Mwale
See also Knallen met de elektrische Ford Mustang Mach-E (2021) review met Stéphane Kox | RTL Autowereld test mustang mach e technology
Tags:akon citybillionaireCITYComing To AmericaDaygreen cityhamptons cafehamptons cafe bed & breakfastHamptons golf resorthamptons golf resort & residenceshamptons hospitalhamptons hospital kakamegahamptons mallJuliusJulius MwaleKenyanMedicalMiss TrudyMiss Trudy in USAmwal-mart supermarketMwalemwale citymwale city 2021mwale city buteremwale city in kakamegaMwale Medical and technology cityNew york vlogTechnologytechnology parkthe hamptonsthe hamptons my jacketthe hamptons new yorkYorkMr
17 thoughts on "A Day With A Kenyan Billionaire Behind Mwale Medical And Technology City In New York/Mr Julius Mwale technology city"
Dennis Wusu 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
Dave Mwila 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
Alex B.K 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
Hey @Miss Trudy, I hope you interview the other Kenyan U.S. based researcher Doctor Njoroge, who has invented several antivirals, he is also building a big research and pharmaceutical manufacturing in his hometown Naivasha.
Stephen Wangaru 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
Wow very inspiring!
Arnold Mark Nantamu 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
Miss Trudy got gorgeous legs tho
Melissa Rains 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
Seeing this much wealth, I assumed there was corruption. It is so amazing to see this brilliant, self made man who earned his wealth with hard work and perseverance. Students need to study him in school to remember to dream big!!! Well done.
Paul Bernard 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
Excellent..A God blessed man . A visionary..an great inspiration..
Justus Wambua 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
Life is transitional and we are guardians life is not permanent. Surround yourself with positive pple with positive energy. I like this.
minkailu seiwoh 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
miss trudy do you have any plan to talk with Opray i wish?
Allan Rawland 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
It is very vital not to me only but also to the rest of the Africans and others over the world. If you can connect me with the right people, to my success you as well be rewarded and I am als the verge of looking proper publishers for book called Life Time Runs
Tony Philips 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
I am soo inspired by this video, if I rip people off and build hospitals in a poor area and charge them can i make millions like the leech
Jane Francis 27/09/2021 at 4:50 PM
Intelligent gentleman! Am inspired thx Trudy! Following frm Uk! Trudy pls can u let me knw abt a secure holiday place in Kenya in a kind of apartment, with a kids pool pls thx hun
