Conjugated estrogens (By mouth) | Baltimore Washington Medical Center
Treats hot flashes and other symptoms of menopause or low amounts of estrogen. Prevents osteoporosis (thinning of the bones) after menopause. Also treats symptoms of advanced breast or prostate cancers. Also treats certain conditions in women before menopause if their ovaries do not make enough estrogen naturally. This medicine is a mixture of estrogens (female hormone).
You should not use this medicine if you have had a severe allergic reaction to estrogens. You should not use this medicine if you have liver disease or cancer of the breast, uterus, or ovary. You should not use this medicine if you have a history of blood clotting problems, heart attack, or stroke. Do not use this medicine if you may be pregnant, are breastfeeding, or have unusual vaginal bleeding that has not been checked by a doctor. This medicine should not be used to prevent heart disease, heart attack, stroke, or dementia.
Sleep Program | Burlington, VT | University of Vermont Medical Center
UVM Medical Center Blog » Blog » From Classical Music to Sleep…
Claire Barker joined the UVM Medical Center's Sleep Program in 2012. She is a registered polysomnographic technologist and a clinical sleep educator, certified in clinical sleep management. Her job? To help people sleep in a healthy way. We asked her about her career path and learned that a career in sleep medicine is anything but a snooze.
How do patients work with you?
Generally, a patient's first interaction is with a sleep specialist, so a physician. Once the doctor diagnoses them and prescribes treatment, I help them manage that treatment. Because sleep affects our whole life – and it's usually a lifelong thing – I help make sure that treatment fits into their lifestyle.
One of the most common things I help with is when a patient is prescribed CPAP to treat sleep apnea. It involves wearing a mask that blows air when you go to sleep. Getting that mask to fit properly so that it's comfortable and conducive to sleep for you is important and that is something with which I help people.
How did you get into the field of sleep medicine?
My dad was a sleep technologist and a respiratory therapist. As I grew up, I always went into the sleep lab with him. I helped make educational videos, where I was the patient and he the technologist.
When I was in college, I wanted to be a professional classical musician. I learned rather quickly that that would not allow me the lifestyle that I wanted. The tipping point came when my orchestra director came to me asking for donations, instead of giving me money. I went crying to my father and said "Dad, what am I going to do? I'm never going to move out of your house." He said "Take my job." That sounded fun, and so I took it.
Something fateful happened on your first day. What was it?
On my first day, my dad introduced me to the gentleman with whom I would work. I kind of thought he was cute, and I was a little awkward around him. Fast-forward a couple years, and now that's my husband.
What wisdom did your dad impart upon you?
My dad was trained in respiratory therapy. He got his start in sleep medicine just as the field itself was getting started. He also helped start some of the first sleep labs. My dad taught me all kinds of things about how conditions should be treated and managed, and how to relate to patients with serious and chronic conditions like COPD. That has shaped by approach to patient care up to today.
When did you have your a-ha moment that you were in the right career?
While I was growing up I'd see tracings of the data that my father collected, and he would quiz me. "Claire, what's going on with this person? Can you tell from these squiggly lines?" After a while, I got familiar with it. But, the first night on the job, my dad put me in a room with a patient. I think I was 19 years old. It was an older patient in his tightie whities. My dad said casually, "Okay, set him up for his sleep study. Here's the diagram of how and where all the sensors go. Good luck, figure it out." And that was my introduction. Training by fire from my dad. That, of course, scared the bejesus out of me, because it made me really nervous. Then after, I got the hang of it and my dad assisted with a more formal education to get me registered in the field.
My first real patient where I was solo was a 15-year-old boy who was suffering with morbid obesity and diabetes, and was just not living his life to its full potential. I did his sleep study, and I got him on treatment. And then I saw a news program about him, about how he turned his life around and everything after he got treated. I said "Okay, this is what I'm doing. Yeah!"
You have a daughter now. Is she following in your footsteps?
Our daughter is six years old, and she is very much into the performing arts. Right now, she plays the ukelele and the keyboard. She's interested in everything. What's funny is that when I was six years old, I was in an educational video for my father's lab, and now our daughter Hazel is in an educational sleep video for the UVM Medical Center.
What is your reflection on your career so far?
I'm a little more influential in the community than I would be if I was playing classical music. So I'm proud of that, I'm happy with it. I think Dad would be proud that I continue to educate the community of the importance of sleep health and have followed in his footsteps.
National Health Center Week is a week set aside to raise awareness about the importance of health centers for maintaining healthy communities. This year, efforts to stop the spread of COVID-19 will play a significant role.
MOBILE, Ala. (PRWEB) August 10, 2020
National Health Center Week (August 9 – 15) is an annual celebration to raise awareness about the mission and accomplishments of America's health centers, such as Accordia Health. In light of COVID-19, this year's National Health Center Week honors those front-line providers, staff, and beloved patients who lost their lives during the (ongoing) COVID-19 pandemic.
Each day of NHCW 2020 is dedicated to a particular focus area, such as patient appreciation, children's health, and help for the homeless.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention defines health centers as "community-based and patient-directed organizations that serve populations with limited access to health care." Community health centers specialize in treating underserved populations by offering primary and behavioral care under one roof.
Accordia Health will recognize the week with a social media campaign and live Facebook event on Friday, August 14, from its Accordia Health location in Bayou La Batre.
Accordia Health is an excellent example of how health centers work: Our clinics in Bayou La Batre (in Mobile County) and Rockford (in Coosa County) are both Federally Qualified Health Centers that offer what's known as "integrated care." Simply put, "integrated care" means people can receive physical and behavioral health services in one location.
Why are community health centers so important? Because they provide a needed safety net for economically vulnerable people who otherwise might not be able to afford health care.
Discounts on services are based on a sliding fee scale depending on household size and income.
Now that you know more about community health centers, if you would like to experience one for yourself, give our offices a call toll-free at (833) 921-1810. You can find us in Bayou La Batre at 13833 Tapia Avenue and in Rockford at 9518 U.S. Hwy 231.
Share article on social media or email:
View article via:
Pdf Print
Contact Author
April Douglas
Accordia Health
251-544-4639
Email >
Visit website
News Center
PRWeb
Questions about a news article you've read?
Reach out to the author: contact and available social following information is listed in the top-right of all news releases.
Questions about your PRWeb account or interested in learning more about our news services?
Call PRWeb:1-866-640-6397
PRWeb home
Why PRWeb
How It Works
Who Uses It
Pricing
Learning
Blog
About Cision
Contact Us
Partners
Subscribe to News
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
Copyright
Site Map
Create a free prweb account
©Copyright 1997-2015, Vocus PRW Holdings, LLC. Vocus, PRWeb, and Publicity Wire are trademarks or registered trademarks of Vocus, Inc. or Vocus PRW Holdings, LLC.
Dr. Michael Lim Skip Navigation
Home > Neurology and Neurosurgery > Centers & Clinics > The Pituitary Center > Staff
Dr. Michael LimAssociate Professor of Neurosurgery and OncologyDirector of the Metastatic Brain Tumor Center
Director of Brain Tumor ImmunotherapySpecialty Areas: Brain Tumor Minimally-Invasive Brain and Skull Base Surgery Pediatric Neurovascular Center Pituitary Center Spine Center Trigeminal Neuralgia CONTACT INFORMATIONThe Johns Hopkins Hospital
Department of Neurosurgery Phipps Building, Room 123
Baltimore, MD 21287410.614.1627 (p)410.502.4954 (f)mlim3@jhmi.eduDr. Michael Lim is an Associate Professor of Neurosurgery and Oncology at Johns Hopkins. Dr. Lim received his medical degree from the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. He then completed his general surgery internship and neurosurgery residency at Stanford Hospital. Dr. Lim's surgical interest is in the treatment of primary and metastatic brain tumors as well as pituitary and skull base tumors. He also has an expertise in surgical treatments of trigeminal neuralgia. As the Director of the Metastatic Brain Tumor Center, Dr. Lim also possesses advanced training in radiosurgery. In addition to treating spinal tumors, he is an expert in the treatment of brain tumors, arteriovenous malformations, and trigeminal neuralgia with radiosurgery. Dr. Lim has also completed a postdoctoral fellowship in novel therapies against brain tumors. His primary research interest is in developing immune-based therapies against brain tumors. As the Director of the Brain Tumor Immunotherapy Program, his research focuses on understanding the mechanisms of immune evasion by primary brain tumors with the goal of translation to novel therapies against gliomas. In addition, Dr. Lim has served as the site principal investigator for several immunotherapy clinical trials. Dr. Lim also performs clinical research in brain tumors, radiosurgery, and trigeminal neuralgia.
Dr. Lim sees patients in the Johns Hopkins Outpatient Center in Baltimore on Thursdays.
Quick LinksRequest an AppointmentRefer a PatientGet a Second OpinionMake A GiftRelated StoriesEmpowering Pituitary Disease Patients HomeAbout Johns Hopkins MedicineContact Johns Hopkins MedicineCenters & DepartmentsMaps & DirectionsFind a DoctorPatient CareEducationResearchNewsCareersSite MapConnect with Johns Hopkins Medicine Facebook Twitter Sharecare Blogs YouTube Subscribe to Johns Hopkins Medicine News RSS Podcasts © The Johns Hopkins University, The Johns Hopkins Hospital, and Johns Hopkins Health System. All rights reserved.Privacy Policy and Disclaimer
Lawrenceville, Ga. – Gwinnett Medical Center (GMC) has announced a new service, ER Express, that allows you to reserve your spot at the emergency department while waiting in the comfort of your home. This new service is available at the hospital’s emergency departments in Duluth and Lawrenceville and at the Children’s Emergency Center at GMC-Lawrenceville.
-----548----
-----2155----
ER Express allows patients with non-life-threatening illnesses to go online and reserve a spot at the emergency department. This service is especially helpful to:
How to resolve AdBlock issue?
Refresh this page
"Most patients who use the ER Express service will be seen within about 30 minutes of their scheduled time, but our emergency department staff must treat patients based on the severity of their illness or injury," says Director of Emergency Services Freda Lyon at GMC-Lawrenceville. "Should a patient with a life-threatening condition arrive when you do, your time may be delayed, however, we will do everything we can to see you as close to your reserved time."
This service is for non-life-threatening emergencies only. If you or a loved one is experiencing chest pains, signs of a stroke, or other life-threatening emergency, immediately dial 911.
How to resolve AdBlock issue?
Refresh this page
About Gwinnett Medical Center
Gwinnett Medical Center is a nationally-recognized, not-for-profit healthcare network with acute-care hospitals in Lawrenceville and Duluth. Offering cardiovascular, orthopedic and neuroscience specialty care as well as a full continuum of wellness services, GMC’s 4,800 associates and 800 affiliated physicians serve more than 400,000 patients annually. To learn more about how GMC is transforming healthcare, visit http://www.gwinnettmedicalcenter.org or follow us at https://www.facebook.com/gwinnettmedical, http://www.twitter.com/gwinnettmedical or http://www.youtube.com/gwinnettmedical
Whether your dental needs are a complete exam and cleaning, a full-mouth restoration, or anything in between, we promise to provide you with exceptional care as we enhance the natural beauty of your smile. Below are just some of the many procedures and services we regularly provide to our patients – with a gentle touch, and stunning results. Your smile is our first priority, and we’ll give you something to smile about.
If you have any questions, concerns, or would like to schedule an appointment, please contact us today. We look forward to providing you with the personal care you deserve.
Sincerely,
Dr. Anthony Riforgiate
Your Santa Maria, CA dentist
Dental Procedure Videos
Cleanings & Prevention
Dental Exams & Cleanings Digital X-Rays Fluoride Treatment Gum Recession Home Care How to Properly Brush & Floss Oral Hygiene Aids Sealants Bruxism
Cosmetic Dentistry
Composite Fillings Porcelain Crowns (Caps) Porcelain Fixed Bridges Porcelain Inlays Porcelain Onlays Porcelain Veneers Teeth Whitening
Restorations
Dental Implants Dentures & Partial Dentures Fixed Bridges Root Canal Therapy
Periodontal Disease
What is Periodontal (Gum) Disease? Causes of Periodontal Disease Signs & Symptoms of Periodontal Disease Diagnosis Maintenance Treatment Periodontal Scaling & Root Planing Mouth - Body Connection Periodontal Disease and Diabetes Periodontal Disease, Heart Disease and Stroke Periodontal Disease and Pregnancy Periodontal Disease and Respiratory Disease Periodontal Disease and Osteoporosis
Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery
Sleep Apnea Appliances Sleep Apnea TMJ (Tempro-Mandibular Joint Dysfunction)
Dr Riforgiate has been my dentist for many years. He is a wonderful dentist and a lovely person to know. His staff is always pleasant, as well. I live 30 minutes away and would make the drive if I lived an hour away ... He's that good! I've been blessed all these years to have had him for my dentist and the good news is I still have all my teeth.
S
Sheila M
Dr. Riforgiate has been my family's dentist for over 30 years. He and his staff are compassionate and caring, and treat you like family. They bend over backwards to make sure you get the care you need, when you need it. He makes himself available for emergencies, and there is literally no turnover in staff, so you're always getting the same excellent care. I cannot recommend this office enough. Even though we recently moved 1 1/2 hours away, we are still going to this office. He and his staff are second to none!
N
Nicholas M
Dr. Tony has been my dentist for more than 15 years. This is a consistently great office that never makes me wait and always bends over backwards to address my concerns. I love that I see the same great people each visit. Bridget is a wonderful hygienist and Tammy at the front desk is always friendly and efficient.
E
Ellen H
This dentist is second to none in his work and concern for the patient. The office is well laid out. The assistants are gracious as is the receptionist/office manager. I look forward to further work with him.
M
Maurice R
My family have been patients of Dr. Riforgiate for 30 years now, and we have received gentle, caring and quality dental care consistently. His staff are warm, caring and thoroughly compassionate.
S
Shawn V
One of the best dentist I ever had. Very concerned, knowledgeable, excellent and his profession, gentle and answers all your questions. His staff, Tammy and Bridgett are polite and make you feel welcome. Highly recommend Anthony Riforgiate, DDS
J
Judy R
I had a really bad experience with a dentist a long time ago! That made me very nervous and, quite frankly, scared to go to another dentist! But after moving to California 10 years ago, I had a problem that required a dentist! Dr. Riforgiate was highly recommended by a family member so I called and made an appointment! From the time I walked into the office, the staff and Dr. Riforgiate just made me feel like I was the most important person there! Then when the doctor started working on me, he was so gentle, always asking if I was ok and making if I was ok. Well, I have been going twice a year since then and I actually look forward to going TO THE DENTIST! I love everyone in that office. I highly recommend Dr. Riforgiate and every one of his staff!
D
Debby R
<iframe id='map' class='col border-0 rounded overflow-hidden' src='https://maps.google.com/maps?&amp;q=504+E.+Church+St%2c+Santa+Maria%2c+CA+93454&amp;output=embed&z=16'></iframe>
Contact Us
We encourage you to contact us with any questions or comments you may have. Please call our office or use the quick contact form below.
|PMC1924530
Akarathum, N.
Pediatr Infect Dis J. Author manuscript; available in PMC 2007 July 17.
Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2006 January; 25(1): 53–58.
PMCID: PMC1924530
NIHMSID: NIHMS22595
Thanyawee Puthanakit, MD,* Peninnah Oberdorfer, MD, PhD,* Noppadon Akarathum, MD,† Pornphun Wannarit, MD,‡ Thira Sirisanthana, MD,* and Virat Sirisanthana, MD*
* Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University
† Sanpathong Hospital, Chiang Mai
‡ Lamphun Hospital, Lamphun, Thailand
E-mail ht.ca.umc.dem.liam@nasirisv. Reprints not available.
Keywords: highly active antiretroviral therapy, human immunodeficiency virus, immune reconstitution syndrome, immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome, children
Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) improves the immune function and decreases mortality, morbidity and opportunistic infections of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected persons.1 Yet, the introduction of HAART presents new clinical issues, including adverse drug effects and the occurrence of diseases that are a consequence of the restoration of the immune response. These diseases, called immune reconstitution syndrome (IRS), or immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome or immune restoration diseases, usually occur within a few weeks to months after the start of HAART. The majority of patients present with unusual manifestations of opportunistic infections, most often while the number of CD4 lymphocytes is increasing and the HIV viral load is decreasing.2–6 Although in most cases the symptoms of IRS resolve after a few weeks, the syndrome can be severe, and result in significant morbidity and occasional mortality. There have been few reports that studied the incidence of IRS in a cohort of patients started on HAART,7–9 especially in children10 and patients from resource-poor countries.11,12 In this report, we prospectively studied the incidence and spectrum of IRS after the initiation of HAART in advanced stage HIV-infected children in Thailand.
The study was conducted at 3 hospitals in Northern Thailand, namely the Chiang Mai University hospital, Lamphun provincial hospital and Sanpatong district hospital. Between May 2002 and April 2004, we prospectively enrolled HIV-infected children to receive HAART in a national antiretroviral drug access program supported by the Thai government. Inclusion criteria were: (1) age 15 years or younger; (2) initial percentage of CD4 lymphocyte ≤15%; (3) no previous treatment with antiretroviral drugs; and (4) no active opportunistic infection. These children represented all patients commencing HAART at the 3 hospitals during the enrollment period. The Research Ethics Committee of Chiang Mai University approved the study. Written informed consent was obtained from each child's parent or guardian before enrollment.
Patients attended study visits at weeks 0 (start of treatment), 2, 4, 8, 12, 18, 24, 32, 40 and 48. During each visit, we reviewed the patient's medical history and did a physical examination. All children and caregivers were counseled initially and at each visit to adhere closely to HAART, and to recognize signs and symptoms indicative of opportunistic infections or an IRS and to seek appropriate care. The symptoms include both systemic (eg, prolonged fever, dyspnea, abdominal pain, diarrhea, headache and weakness) and localized symptoms (eg, lymphadenitis, subcutaneous nodules and abnormal skin lesions). Blood tests for CD4 lymphocytes and plasma HIV RNA titers were performed at weeks 0, 8, 24 and 48 of HAART. In some cases, these tests were also performed at the time suspected IRS occurred. Choices of laboratory investigations were directed by clinical symptoms and were performed as soon as IRS was suspected.
Outcomes of HAART were divided into 4 categories based on responses in the number of CD4 lymphocytes and plasma HIV RNA titers during the first 24 weeks of treatment. Immunologic success was defined as an increase from baseline in CD4 lymphocyte percentage ≥5%, whereas failure to achieve that concentration was defined as immunologic failure. Viral success was defined as a decrease in plasma HIV RNA titer >2 log10 or as achieving titer <50 copies/mL. Viral failure was defined as the failure to achieve this level of suppression. For the purpose of this report, a disease event was defined as IRS if it occurred in a patient with immunologic success and/or viral success, and was caused by microorganisms or conditions previously reported to be associated with IRS.2–6
Immunologic and Microbiologic Methods
CD4 lymphocyte count was assessed with the FACSCalibur Flow Cytometer (Becton-Dickinson, Mountain View, CA) using 3-color reagents and dual platform format. The Roche Ultrasensitive Amplicor assay version 1.5 (Roche Molecular Systems, Branchburg, NJ) measured plasma HIV RNA titer (viral load). The diagnosis of mycobacterial infection was based on microscopic examination and/or culture of clinical specimens. For blood and specimens from normally sterile sites, the BACTEC 9000MB (Becton Dickinson, MD) was used to perform cultures using a fluorescence detection system. Positive BACTEC cultures were subcultured on solid media for colony isolation. Conventional methods with Lowenstein-Jensen media were used to perform cultures from other clinical specimens. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction enzyme analysis technique were used to perform species identification of Mycobacterium spp., as previously described.13 Mycobacterium bovis Calmette-Guérin bacillus (BCG) strain was identified using a multiplex PCR method to detect the RD1 deletion.14
Diagnosis of mucocutaneous varicella-zoster virus infection and herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection was based on clinical signs and symptoms. In cases with central nervous system manifestations, blood and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were examined for varicella-zoster virus, HSV, and cytomegalovirus using nested PCR assays. Diagnosis of cryptococcal infection was made by positive CSF culture or detection of cryptococcal capsular polysaccharide antigen in the serum and/or CSF.
An independent sample t test was used to compare baseline CD4 lymphocyte counts and plasma HIV RNA titers, as well as response to HAART of HIV-infected children with and without IRS. Data were analyzed with the Stata 6.0 software (Stata Corp., College Station, TX). A 2-sided P value <0.05 was significant.
Between May 2002 and April 2004, 153 HIV-infected children were enrolled to receive HAART from the national drug access program. The HAART regimens used were the combination of stavudine, lamivudine and nevirapine in 81 patients, and the combination of stavudine, lamivudine and efavirenz in 72 patients. The mean age, gender, mean baseline CD4 lymphocyte percentages and mean baseline HIV RNA titers of these 153 children are shown in Table 1. All patients were followed for 48 weeks after initiation of HAART.
Characteristics of HIV-Infected Children
Of the 153 children, 29 (19.0%; 95% confidence interval, 13.1–26.1%) had 32 episodes of IRS (Table 2). The median time of onset was 4 weeks after initiation of HAART (range, 2–31). There were 14 episodes of IRS caused by mycobacterial organisms, 7 episodes by varicella-zoster virus, 7 episodes by HSV, 3 episodes by Cryptococcus neoformans and 1 episode of Guillain-Barré syndrome. There was no interruption of HAART in any of the patients, except for patient No. 9, whose treatment was discontinued for 8 weeks during IRS. There were 2 patients (Nos. 9 and 10) who received short course corticosteroids during IRS. Three patients (Nos. 4, 6 and 25) died of IRS or its complication.
Immune Reconstitution Syndrome in Children After HAART
Of the 14 episodes of mycobacterial infection, 11 were confirmed by culture. In the other 3 episodes, 2 cases of Mycobacterium tuberculosis infection were diagnosed by chest roentgenograms and positive tuberculin skin tests, and 1 case of infection by M. bovis BCG strain was diagnosed by typical clinical presentations. Of these 14 episodes, 6 patients presented with subcutaneous abscesses and/or lymphadenitis. There were 5 patients who presented with fever, dyspnea and pulmonary infiltrates on chest roentgenograms. Three patients presented with fever and abdominal pain. The median time from initiation of HAART to the onset of clinical symptoms was 3.5 weeks (range, 2–31). In 11 patients, the mycobacterial infections had not been diagnosed previously. sIn the remaining 3 patients, the IRS represented a paradoxical worsening of the mycobacterial infections, which were being treated successfully at HAART initiation. Two patients died. One died of acute respiratory distress syndrome attributed to Mycobacterium avium complex infection. The other died of Pseudomonas aeruginosa septicemia complicating a prolonged hospitalization for Mycobacterium scrofulaceum infection.
All 7 patients with IRS associated with varicella-zoster virus infection had typical dermatomal distribution of vesicular lesions and responded well to treatment with oral acyclovir. The median time from the initiation of HAART to the onset of clinical symptoms was 6 weeks (range, 2–21). Of the 7 patients with HSV infection, 6 presented with herpes simplex labialis. The median time from the initiation of HAART to the onset of herpes simplex labialis was 4 weeks (range, 2–31). The remaining patient presented with altered mental status 18 weeks after commencing HAART. Nested PCR assays of her CSF were positive for HSV, and negative for varicella-zoster virus and cytomegalovirus. Electroencephalogram and magnetic resonance imaging of the brain showed findings strongly suggestive of herpes simplex encephalitis. The patient had had cytomegalovirus retinitis and had been treated with intravenous ganciclovir before HAART initiation. Her cytomegalovirus retinitis remained inactive. Despite treatment with intravenous acyclovir, she died during the fourth week of the encephalitic illness.
All 3 patients with cryptococcal IRS had been treated for cryptococcal meningitis before commencing HAART. They presented with low grade fever and headache at 2, 2 and 7 weeks after starting HAART. One patient (patient 28) admitted that she had not been taking the drug, fluconazole, prescribed for secondary prophylaxis. Microscopic examination of her CSF showed 147 leukocytes/mL3 and the culture grew C. neoformans. The remaining 2 patients had been taking fluconazole regularly. Their infection was diagnosed by the presence of cryptococcal antigen in the blood samples. No lumbar puncture was performed. All 3 patients responded favorably to treatment with amphotericin B.
The patient with Guillain-Barré syndrome was diagnosed on the basis of microscopic and biochemical findings of the CSF, as well as magnetic resonance imaging of the spinal cord and the electrodiagnostic study. She presented with subacute onset of progressive leg weakness that occurred 3 weeks after initiation of efavirenz-based HAART. The bacterial, mycobacterial and fungal cultures of the CSF showed no growth. Nested PCR assays of her CSF were negative for varicella-zoster virus, HSV and cytomegalovirus. She gradually improved and had a total recovery in 4 weeks.
Three disease events occurred in the 124 children who did not have IRS ("no" IRS group). One 10-year-old girl presented with fever, cough and severe dyspnea 6 weeks after starting HAART, and died shortly after her admission to the hospital. Her blood culture grew Staphylococcus aureus and sputum culture grew Mycobacterium kansasii. The second patient presented with similar symptoms 4 weeks after HAART. The parents refused admission, and she died at home 2 weeks later. These 2 patients did not have CD4 lymphocyte count and HIV RNA levels other than those at baseline and, thus, did not satisfy our case definition of IRS. The third patient had an opportunistic infection caused by Salmonella enteritidis septicemia 7 weeks after commencing HAART. She responded promptly to a course of parenteral antibiotic.
Table 1 shows mean CD4 lymphocyte percentages and mean plasma HIV RNA levels for the 29 children who had IRS and the 124 children in the "no" IRS group. Average CD4 lymphocyte percentage at initiation of HAART was lower in children who had IRS when compared with those who did not (3.1% versus 5.5%, respectively, P = 0.02). Upward changes in CD4 lymphocyte percentage were similar in both groups at 8, 24 and 48 weeks after the initiation of HAART. There was no difference in plasma HIV RNA values between the 2 groups at baseline and 8, 24 and 48 weeks after initiation of HAART.
This study showed a high incidence of IRS after initiating HAART in advanced stage HIV-infected children. The spectrum of IRS is similar to previous reports. They involve either exacerbation, often with unusual manifestations, of a previously treated opportunistic infections or unmasking of a previously subclinical infection.2–6 Less commonly, IRS can manifest as an occurrence of noninfectious disease, such as Guillain-Barré syndrome.15 There is no generally accepted case definition for IRS. The definition of IRS used in our report covers HIV-infected patients whose antiretroviral treatment has led to an increase in CD4 lymphocyte count and decrease in plasma HIV RNA titer, and who have a disease event caused by microorganisms or conditions that have previously been associated with IRS in major review articles on the subject.2–6 This case definition together with clinical manifestations that are different from manifestations of opportunistic infections in patients not taking HAART, such as localized mycobacterial infections, mild cases of herpes zoster or cases of cryptococcal meningitis with prominent inflammatory response in the CSF, is highly specific for IRS.
Of the 32 episodes of IRS, 14 (43.7%) were caused by Mycobacterium spp. All patients presented with localized infection in the lymph nodes, subcutaneous or submucosal tissues or lungs. Two patients who had been vaccinated with M. bovis BCG strain several years before commencing HAART presented with localized infection by that organism. Mycobacterium spp. are often implicated in IRS, and together they represent about 40% of all reported cases.4 The patients usually present with fever, lymphadenitis, subcutaneous abscesses, pulmonary infiltrates or inflammatory masses, usually during the first 3 months of HAART.16–19 A case of lymphadenitis caused by M. bovis BCG strain had also been reported.20
There were 7 episodes (21.9%) caused by varicella-zoster virus. In all cases, manifestations were mild and uncomplicated. Studies have shown that the incidence of herpes zoster markedly increase in HIV-infected patients treated with HAART versus those not taking HAART.10,21–23 Herpes zoster represents about 22% of all reported cases of IRS.4 The majority of cases present during the first 4 months of HAART.
Of the 32 episodes of IRS, 6 (18.7%) were manifestations of herpes simplex labialis. One other patient died of encephalitis caused by HSV. Data from 1 observational study suggested that adult patients responding to HAART had a high incidence of mucocutaneous HSV disease.8 The study also showed 1 death from encephalitis caused by HSV after HAART.
Three episodes of IRS in our study were manifestation of cryptococcal meningitis. Cryptococcal IRS is characterized by a more prominent inflammatory response in the CSF than in patients not receiving HAART.24 In our patient, the leukocyte count in the CSF was 147 cells/mL3. We had reported cases of cryptococcal meningitis in 21 children who were not taking HAART from Chiang Mai University Hospital.25 Mean leukocyte count in the CSF was 17.6 cells/mL3 (range, 0–130).
In our study, 29 (19%) of the 153 children had 32 episodes of IRS within the first year of HAART. Three children died of IRS or its complications. Two more deaths occurred in children without IRS. The baseline CD4 lymphocyte percentage was lower in children who had IRS when compared with those who did not. There have been few reports that studied the incidence of IRS in a cohort of patients started on HAART. French et al8 did a retrospective study on all adult patients commencing HAART at one hospital in Australia. Of 141 patients, ≥1 episodes of IRS developed in 33 (23.4%) during the 30 weeks after commencement of HAART. The most common manifestations were dermatomal zoster, mucocutaneous herpes, cytomegalovirus retinitis and M. avium complex lymphadenopathy. Logistic regression analysis showed that low baseline CD4 lymphocyte count was a significant risk factor for IRS. In the only published study in children, IRS developed in 7 (11.5%) of the 61 children started on HAART, all of which were dermatomal zoster.10 Average CD4 lymphocyte percentage at initiation of HAART in this study was 21.9% compared with 5.0% in our study. This result could explain the difference in the spectrum of IRS between the 2 studies.
Three studies of the incidence of IRS were reported in specific subsets of patients commencing HAART. In a Thai prospective multicenter study of 60 advanced AIDS patients who had had successful treatment of acute cryptococcal meningitis and were on secondary prophylaxis, 20 episodes of IRS developed in 14 patients (23.3%). The most common causes of IRS were tuberculosis, M. avium complex, relapsed cryptococcal meningitis and herpes zoster.11 In a retrospective study from India, IRS caused by M. tuberculosis developed in 11 (7.6%) of the 144 HIV and tuberculosis-coinfected patients.12 Finally Shelburne et al9 conducted a retrospective study of patients who received HAART and were coinfected with M. tuberculosis, M. avium complex or C. neoformans. Of the 180 patients, IRS developed in 57 (31.7%), all from the coinfecting microorganisms.9
Thus, between 7.6% and 32% of patients commencing HAART had IRS develop. The difference in incidence among various studies can be explained by the difference in the case definition of IRS used and the risk factors in the population being studied. In addition, the incidence and spectrum of IRS were likely to be different in pediatric cohorts compared with adult cohorts and in patients from developing countries compared with developed countries. For example, the spectrum of opportunistic infections in Thailand had been shown to be unique.26
During the past few years, progress had been made in providing HAART to patients in developing countries.27 These patients often had multiple opportunistic and concomitant infections,28 and started HAART at a low baseline CD4 lymphocyte count.29 Thus, there were many patients at risk for IRS developing. In 1 report on 743 adult patients starting HAART and followed for 2–7 months, 61 patients (8.2%) died.29 In another report from South Africa, 16 (13%) of 122 children died within the first 6 months of HAART.30 The major causes of death in these patients were likely to be opportunistic infections occurring in patients with residual defects of cell-mediated immunity, IRS and adverse drug events. Educational programs for health care workers and patients concentrating on recognizing and treating these conditions should reduce the rate of early deaths after HAART in these resource-poor countries.
We thank Drs. Nattapong Ukarapol, Somrak Rangkakulnuwat and Surachai Likasitwattanakul of the Faculty of Medicine, Chiang Mai University, for their assistance in making diagnosis.
Supported by the Thailand Research Fund of the Royal Thai Government and by Fogarty International Center grant 5R01 TW006187-03.
1. Palella FJ, Jr, Delaney KM, Moorman AC, et al. Declining morbidity and mortality among patients with advanced human immunodeficiency virus infection. N Engl J Med. 1998;338:853–860. [PubMed]
2. DeSimone JA, Pomerantz RJ, Babinchak TJ. Inflammatory reactions in HIV-1-infected persons after initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy. Ann Intern Med. 2000;133:447–454. [PubMed]
3. Cheng VC, Yuen KY, Chan WM, Wong SS, Ma ES, Chan RM. Immunorestitution disease involving the innate and adaptive response. Clin Infect Dis. 2000;30:882–892. [PubMed]
4. Shelburne SA, III, Hamill RJ, Rodriguez-Barradas MC, et al. Immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome: emergence of a unique syndrome during highly active antiretroviral therapy. Medicine (Baltimore) 2002;81:213–227. [PubMed]
5. French MA, Price P, Stone SF. Immune restoration disease after anti-retroviral therapy. AIDS. 2004;18:1615–1627. [PubMed]
6. Hirsch HH, Kaufmann G, Sendi P, Battegay M. Immune reconstitution in HIV-infected patients. Clin Infect Dis. 2004;38:1159–1166. [PubMed]
7. Michelet C, Arvieux C, Francois C, et al. Opportunistic infections occurring during highly active antiretroviral treatment. AIDS. 1998;12:1815–1822. [PubMed]
8. French MA, Lenzo N, John M, et al. Immune restoration disease after the treatment of immunodeficient HIV-infected patients with highly active antiretroviral therapy. HIV Med. 2000;1:107–115. [PubMed]
9. Shelburne SA, Visnegarwala F, Darcourt J, et al. Incidence and risk factors for immune reconstitution inflammatory syndrome during highly active antiretroviral therapy. AIDS. 2005;19:399–406. [PubMed]
10. Tangsinmankong N, Kamchaisatian W, Lujan-Zilbermann J, Brown CL, Sleasman JW, Emmanuel PJ. Varicella zoster as a manifestation of immune restoration disease in HIV-infected children. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2004;113:742–746. [PubMed]
11. Sungkanuparph S, Vibhagool A, Mootsikapun P, Chetchotisakd P, Tansuphaswaswadikul S, Bowonwatanuwong C. Opportunistic infections after the initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy in advanced AIDS patients in an area with a high prevalence of tuberculosis. AIDS. 2003;17:2129–2131. [PubMed]
12. Kumarasamy N, Chaguturu S, Mayer KH, et al. Incidence of immune reconstitution syndrome in HIV/tuberculosis-coinfected patients after initiation of generic antiretroviral therapy in India. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2004;37:1574–1576. [PubMed]
13. Sansila A, Hongmanee P, Chuchottaworn C, Rienthong S, Rienthong D, Palittapongarnpim P. Differentiation between Mycobacterium tuberculosis and Mycobacterium avium by amplification of the 16S–23S ribosomal DNA spacer. J Clin Microbiol. 1998;36:2399–2403. [PMC free article] [PubMed]
14. Talbot EA, Williams DL, Frothingham R. PCR identification of Mycobacterium bovis BCG. J Clin Microbiol. 1997;35:566–569. [PMC free article] [PubMed]
15. Piliero PJ, Fish DG, Preston S, et al. Guillain-Barré syndrome associated with immune reconstitution. Clin Infect Dis. 2003;36:e111–e114. [PubMed]
16. Salama C, Policar M, Venkataraman M. Isolated pulmonary Mycobacterium avium complex infection in patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection: case reports and literature review. Clin Infect Dis. 2003;37:e35–e40. [PubMed]
17. del Giudice P, Durant J, Counillon E, et al. Mycobacterial cutaneous manifestations: a new sign of immune restoration syndrome in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Arch Dermatol. 1999;135:129–130. [PubMed]
18. Cabie A, Abel S, Brebion A, Desbois N, Sobesky G. Mycobacterial lymphadenitis after initiation of highly active antiretroviral therapy. Eur J Clin Microbiol Infect Dis. 1998;17:812–813. [PubMed]
19. Lawn SD, Bicanic TA, Macallan DC. Pyomyositis and cutaneous abscesses due to Mycobacterium avium: an immune reconstitution manifestation in a patient with AIDS. Clin Infect Dis. 2004;38:461–463. [PubMed]
20. Sharp MJ, Mallon DFJ. Regional Bacillus Calmette-Guérin lymphadenitis after initiating antiretroviral therapy in an infant with human immunodeficiency virus type 1 infection. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 1998;17:660–662. [PubMed]
21. Aldeen T, Hay P, Davidson F, Lau R. Herpes zoster infection in HIV-seropositive patients associated with highly active antiretroviral therapy. AIDS. 1998;12:1719–1720. [PubMed]
22. Martinez E, Gatell J, Moran Y, et al. High incidence of herpes zoster in patients with AIDS soon after therapy with protease inhibitors. Clin Infect Dis. 1998;27:1510–1513. [PubMed]
23. Domingo P, Torres OH, Ris J, Vazquez G. Herpes zoster as an immune reconstitution disease after initiation of combination antiretroviral therapy in patients with human immunodeficiency virus type-1 infection. Am J Med. 2001;110:605–609. [PubMed]
24. Woods ML, MacGinley R, Eisen D, Allworth AM. HIV combination therapy: partial immune reconstitution unmasking latent cryptococcal infection. AIDS. 1998;12:1491–1494. [PubMed]
25. Likasitwattanakul S, Poneprasert B, Sirisanthana V. Cryptococcosis in HIV-infected children. Southeast Asian J Trop Med Public Health. 2004;35:935–939. [PubMed]
26. Chariyalertsak S, Sirisanthana T, Saengwonloey O, Nelson K. Clinical presentation and risk behaviors of patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome in Thailand, 1994–1998: regional variation and temporal trends. Clin Infect Dis. 2001;32:955–962. [PubMed]
27. Steinbrook R. After Bangkok–expanding the global response to AIDS. N Engl J Med. 2004;351:738–742. [PubMed]
28. Kumarasamy N, Solomon S, Flanigan TP, Hemalatha R, Thyagarajan SP, Mayer KH. Natural history of human immunodeficiency virus disease in Southern India. Clin Infect Dis. 2003;36:79–85. [PubMed]
29. Tassie JM, Szumilin E, Calmy A, Goemaere E. Highly active antiretroviral therapy in resource-poor settings: the experience of Medecins Sans Frontieres. AIDS. 2003;17:1995–1997. [PubMed]
30. Nuttall J, Eley B, Davies M, et al. Serious medical events in children during the first six months of HAART. XV International AIDS Conference; July 11–16, 2004; Bangkok, Thailand. Geneva, Switzerland: International AIDS Society; 2004. Abstract TuPeB4414.
Discovery Cove Recovery and Wellnes Center allows Private Pay, Private Insurance for Drug Rehab , Military Insurance in Drug Rehab for the following treatment approaches: Behavioral and Cognitive Therapy, Relapse Prevention Plans. The environment that they offer these services in are: Outpatient Rehabilitation.
These services are offered for the following types of care: Drug and Alcohol Rehabilitation Services, Detoxification Services. They provide a number of special programs including: Continuing Care Planning, Comprehensive Substance Abuse Assessment, Mental Illness Services, Substance Abuse Evaluation.

Compass Health Inc Pathways Comm Behavioral Healthcare is a drug and alcohol rehab program based at 1216 Deadra Drive in Lebanon, Missouri. Compass Health Inc Pathways Comm Behavioral Healthcare can be contacted at 417-532-7102.
The primary approaches to treatment at this center include Cognitive and Behavioral Therapy, Relapse Prevention Plans, 12-Step Recovery Groups. The program also offers their services in different environments, such as Outpatient Rehab.
Compass Health Inc Pathways Comm Behavioral Healthcare also offers various programs that are customized to meet the needs of specific people such as: Aftercare and Relapse Prevention, Comprehensive Substance Abuse Assessment, Substance Abuse Assessment. Finally, Compass Health Inc Pathways Comm Behavioral Healthcare accepts the following forms of payment, such as Private Pay, Medicaid for Alcohol and Drug Treatment, Private Insurance for Drug Rehab , Sliding Scale Fee Payments for Rehab.

With over 12K+ College & University contacts, including 10K+ emails, we have all the information needed to carry out a targeted College / University marketing campaign.
We have all the usual database selections available, including by Org Type and Region plus enhanced database selections by Size / Number of Pupils.
Our College & University Database is provided with full contact details, including Name, Job Role, Org Name, Address + Telephone number, and we also provide direct named emails of the contacts on file.
The breakdowns below are a seniority level split of our College & University Database and a selection of some the departments covered.
Click to download a Colleges / University Overview containing counts on organisation type, seniority, department / job role, region, number of employees and student population.
You can also download a file of College / University Samples showing the format and layout of the data we provide.
We also have over 3.5K+ Heads of Faculty / Department contacts in Academic Services, for fields including Anthropology, Archaeology, Architecture, Arts, Beauty & Bio Sciences.
And our Colleges / University Database also extends into Student Services, with over 2K+ named decision makers including Admissions, Careers & Welfare.
UK to give pertussis vaccine to newborns? Autism and SIDS are on the package insert | The Refusers
MB comment: Here is a clear measure of medical insanity and the threat it represents to the health and life of your children: UK authorities are considering giving the pertussis vaccine to newborns, even though there are no safety studies to support vaccination of newborns.
Newborn babies could get whooping cough vaccination – BBC News
cia parker September 3, 2012
Dr. Michaela Glockler, in A Guide to Child Health, p. 157, says: "An existing study proves that infants at the age of two months do not develop antibodies after the first injection but lose much of the remaining immunity conferred by their mothers' antibodies. Antibody formation still remains inadequate after the second vaccination at four months; effective antibody levels generally develop only after the third vaccination at age six months." (Miller, M.S., et al, "Safety and Immunogenicity of PRP-T combined with DPT. Pediatrics 1995, 4) The famous Manitoba study, "Delay in Diphtheria, Pertussis Tetanus Vaccination is Associated with a Reduced Risk of Childhood Asthma," McDonal KL, et al, J Allergy Clin Immonol. 2008 Mar;121(3):626-31, studies 11,531 Canadian children and found that children who started the vaccine series with at least a two-month delay more than halved their chance of having asthma at age seven.
11% of children vaccinated on the current schedule have asthma at seven, about 5% of those who delay starting the series do, and only 2% of unvaccinated children have asthma at seven.
Why do authorities worldwide pointedly ignore the scientific evidence that the pertussis vaccine causes asthma, more often the earlier it is given, in addition to causing allergies, autsim, seizure disorders, and SIDS? The only way to protect young infants from a disease often dangerous to them, and usually only to them, being wearing but harmless in most of those over three months old, is to quarantine them at home. Even if you vaccinated every single person who comes into contact with them, the fact that 80-90% of those getting pertussis in the U.S. this year had been appropriately vaccinated for it, means that a huge number of people are still capable of catching and transmitting the disease to vulnerable newborns. Why isn't this information given to parents?
Jeff C September 3, 2012
Except there is no "whooping cough vaccine". What they are really proposing is a tri-valent diphtheria, tetanus, and pertussis (DTaP) vaccine at birth. Even if one can make the case the pertussis vaccine makes sense at birth from a risk/benefit standpoint (highly doubtful), diphtheria and tetanus can not pass that threshold as there is no outbreak of either disease. There is no justification whatsoever for these at birth, administration will result in an unknown risk with zero tangible benefits.
Funny how the article doesn't bother mentioning that inconvenient fact.
cia parker September 5, 2012
Highly dangerous, reactive vaccine completely ineffective among newborns, the only group at risk from the disease. Why bother? Oh yeah, I forgot about all the money the medical industry gets from producing it and pushing its use.
Are MTHFR Genetic Mutations Placing Your Patients at Risk?
5,10-methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) is an enzyme that plays a critical role in the metabolism of the vitamin, folic acid. It functions as the "recycling" enzyme for the active form of the vitamin (L5-methyltetrahydrofolate, 5-MTHF). 5-MTHF, as the active form of folic acid, plays a key function in many biological processes, including the removal of homocysteine, as a donor of a methyl group. Whenever 5-MTHF is utilized as a methyl donor, it is altered into non-functional 5,10-MTHF and needs to be converted back into the active form by MTHFR enzymes.
The MTHFR gene contains the DNA code for the synthesis of the MTHFR enzyme. Common MTHFR gene variants, containing an error in the gene code ("single nucleotide polymorphism" or "SNP" for short) cause a loss-of-function in the enzyme. The degree of loss-of-function depends on the type of SNP and the number of SNPs present in the MTHFR genes. Everyone has two copies of the gene, one MTHFR gene is located in the maternal-derived chromosome (i.e. from the ova) and another copy of the MTHFR gene is located in the paired paternal-derived chromosome (i.e. from sperm).
Cardiovascular disease, stroke, venous thromboembolism, cancers (colon, breast, cervical), neural tube defects, miscarriage, and depression have all been suggested to result from low levels of 5-MTHF due to a decrease in MTHFR enzyme activity. When a significant loss of MTHFR enzyme function exists, the amino acid homocysteine may also be elevated.
5-MTHF can be deficient, even when homocysteine levels are normal, as reported by Oxford University researchers.1 Research has suggested that low levels of 5-MTHF may be the real �mediator� of many abnormalities and elevated homocysteine may, in most cases, be just a "marker", of clinical dysfunction.1,2
MTHFR: Understanding the Genetics
There are two genetic variants (abnormal forms) of the MTHFR gene. One MTHFR variant gene has an error in the DNA code located at DNA position 677. The normal MTHFR gene contains a Cytosine nucleotide (C) at this 677 location, but the variant has erroneously replaced cytosine with a Thymine nucleotide (T). This is referred to as the 677 C>T variant.
A second MTHFR gene variant is located at DNA position 1298. The normal gene contains an Adenine nucleotide (A) at this 1298 location, but the variant has erroneously replaced Adenine (A) with a Cytosine nucleotide (C). This is referred to as the 1298 A>C variant. It is not uncommon for some individuals to have both MTHFR variants. Studies with leukocytes isolated from patients with MTHFR variant genes have measured the loss in MTHFR enzyme function.
Table and Chart showing the decrease in enzyme
activity with the presence of MTHFR variants
Iverson's MTHFR Assay Can Help
Now, thanks to genomic medicine, you have the means to quickly, easily and cost-effectively determine whether your patients have the genetic mutations that lead to abnormal clinical conditions. Identifying these genetic variants early can
help you decide whether to recommend that your patients receive therapy (e.g. supplementation). Genetic counseling and preventative approaches for these patients can emphasize the importance of developing lifestyles that decrease risk factors before an adverse event occurs.
1. Antoniades, C et al., MTHFR 677 C>T Polymorphism Reveals Functional Importance for 5-Methyltetrahydrofolate, not Homocysteine, in Regulation of Vascular Redox State and Endothelial Function in Human Atherosclerosis. Circulation 2009; 119:2507-2515.
2. Jacobsen, D.W., Total Plasma Homocysteine: The Media/Marker Controversy Continues. Clin. Chem. 2009; 55(9): 1742-1743.
3. van der Put, N.M.J. et al., A Second Common Mutation in the Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase Gene: An Additional Risk Factor for Neural-Tube Defects, Am. J. Hum. Genet. 1998; 62:1044-1051.
4. Robien K., et al., Methylenetratrahydrofolate Reductase Genotype Affects Risk of Relapse after Hematopoitic Cell Transplantation for Chronic Myelogenous Leukemia. Clin. Cancer Res. 2004; 10:7592-7598.
5. Botto LD, Yang Q. 5,10-Methylenetetrahydrofolate Reductase Gene Variants and Congenital Anomalies: a HuGe Review. Am J Epidemiol. 2000; 151(9):862-877.
