i know i have a mental illness but i have no insurance and no money....any advice?
Asked by Anonymous at 7:21 PM on Aug. 27, 2010 in Health
It depends on what "mental illness" we are talking about. What do you think is wrong?
Answer by SabrinaMBowen at 7:22 PM on Aug. 27, 2010
have you been diagnosed? sometimes it may make you elgible for disibility
Answer by princessbeth79 at 7:22 PM on Aug. 27, 2010
Mental illnesses are covered by various Social Welfare systems. Depending on your age, contact Medicaid or Medicare to see what programs are available to you.
Answer by Micksbabe at 7:25 PM on Aug. 27, 2010
Well you have to be diagnosed with something for sure. First, I would see if you can apply for state health insurance then I would contact social services and see what they can do for you. If you do in fact have a mental illness that makes you unable to work you may qualify for state funding. Where I live, people that can not work due to mental illness are funded by DMHAS. You may have to do some researching, these services are sometimes hard to get if you are over 18 and it also depends on the state you live in.
Answer by Namaste17 at 7:28 PM on Aug. 27, 2010
Your city or county will have mental health services. The fees are based on income or it's free. There are usually specialists at helping you get Medicaid or other services you qualify for. If you need meds and can't afford them they may have free meds or can help you get them from the drug companies.
If you have no money you should already be on Medicaid and you need to look on their website or contact them and find out what you need to do to get mental health services. Usually MDs can treat simple depression.
Answer by Gailll at 7:33 PM on Aug. 27, 2010
You can go to a mental health facility (check around to see which ones do this) and bring income statements etc... and apply for charity care. Since a lot of insurance plans don't cover mental health care some of them get federal subsidies.
They will bring you in every 3 or 4 months to see if you still qualify. Also if you get prescribed something they will help you with either samples or apply for charity care through the drug manufacturer.
I got free mental health care that way before my hubby put me on his insurance. It's nothing to be ashamed of. I hope you are able to get the help you need and feel better soon.
Citing Audio and Video Publications on Your CV | MED-TAC International Corp.
Medical education is changing and so too are the types of publications with high impact. No longer do we live in a world where traditional journal publications are the only meaningful contribution to academia and to our specialty. The "non-traditional" publications include podcasts, educational videos, and blog posts. Just like journal articles, these can be done very well with thorough research, attention to detail, and even peer review. They can have broad reach, inspire change, and initiate conversation.
Curriculum Vitae Citation
Many people are uncertain how to cite this work on their curriculum vitae (CV). The structure of a CV will vary from one individual to the next, but let me share how I recommend citing audio and video publications.
First of all, cite them under the category of "Publications." Personally, I have subcategories for "Print," "Audio," and "Video." If you don't consider them publications, then why would your administrators?
Below are suggested formats and examples for audio and video publications to credit your work. Let's build a culture of academic merit with multimedia publications.
Audio Publication CV Reference
[box]Last Name First Initial. Your role. "Title of the segment." Title of the Audio Publication. Date of release. URL[/box]
McCue J. Contributor. "C3: Abdominal pain in the elderly." Emergency Medicine Reviews and Perspectives. 2017 Jan 1. https://www.emrap.org/episode/c3elderly/introduction
Video Publication CV Reference
[box]Last Name First Initial. Your role. "Video title." Title of Video Host or Channel. Date of release. URL[/box]
Anaya A. Presenter. "Paracentesis." Emergency Medicine Reviews and Perspectives. 2017 Jan 23. https://www.emrap.org/episode/paracentesis/paracentesis
Gwen Stefani is best known as the lead singer of the group, No Doubt, but during their hiatus she has her solo career. Her first solo album was released in 2004, her second in 2006; both having phenomenal success. She is working on a third solo album and another No Doubt album is in the works as well. Here are the official music videos of Gwen Stefani.
The prostate gland is an essential section of a male's the reproductive system. It secretes fluids that assisted in the transportation and activation of sperm. The men's prostate can be found just before the rectum, below the bladder and surrounding the urethra. When there is prostate problem, it is almost always very uncomfortable and inconvenient for that patient as his urinary product is directly affected.
Prostate infection, often known as prostatitis, is among the most common prostate-related problem in men younger than 55 years old. Infections of the prostate are classified into four types - acute bacterial prostatitis, chronic bacterial prostatitis, chronic abacterial prostatitis and prosttodynia.
Acute bacterial prostatitis could be the least common of most kinds of prostate infection. It is due to bacteria based in the large intestines or urinary tract. Patients may experience fever, chills, body aches, back pains and urination problems. This condition is treated by making use of antibiotics or non-steroid anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) to relieve the swelling.
Chronic bacterial prostatitis can be a condition of the particular defect inside gland along with the persistence presence of bacteria within the urinary tract. It can be a result of trauma for the urinary tract or by infections received from other areas with the body. A patient may go through testicular pain, lower back pains and urination problems. Although it is uncommon, it may be treated by removal from the prostate defect accompanied by the use antibiotics and NSAIDs to treat the redness.
Non-bacterial prostatitis is the reason approximately 90% of most prostatitis cases; however, researchers have not yet to determine the sources of these conditions. Some researchers believe chronic non-bacterial prostatitis occur as a result of unknown infectious agents while other think that intensive exercise and high lifting may cause these infections.
3. Eat beef without excess. It has been shown that consuming more than four meals of beef weekly will heighten the risk of prostate diseases and cancer.
The most important measure to adopt to make sure a wholesome prostate would be to go for regular prostate health screening. If you are forty years old and above, you must go for prostate examination at least one time per year.
Not So Happy: Hospital Acquired Pressure Injuries (HAPIs) Are Second Most Common Lawsuit In Healthcare Settings - InjuryMatch Blog
Legal News
Drugs
Medical Devices
Consumer Goods
Health & Wellness
Addiction
Diabetes
Men
Mental Health
Veterans
Tinnitus
Women
About
Not So Happy: Hospital Acquired Pressure Injuries (HAPIs) Are Second Most Common Lawsuit In Healthcare Settings
Legal NewsMedical Devices
June 29, 2021
Injury Match Staff
Hospital Acquired Pressure Injuries (HAPIs) occur because of patient immobility, pressure, friction, shear, poor nutrition, and poor blood circulation, affecting more than 2.5 million patients annually. The cost of treating HAPIs is roughly $10 billion per year, according to DailyNurse.com.
In extreme cases, HAPIs, which are also called “pressure ulcers,” can cause tissue loss, severe pain and even death. In fact, according to the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), approximately 60,000 people die every year because of pressure ulcers.
AHRQ says that more than 17,000 lawsuits are related to pressure ulcers annually, which makes HAPI the second most common claim after wrongful death. HAPI lawsuits outnumber falls and emotional distress.
More unhappy HAPI states, courtesy of AHRQ: The cost of treating a pressure ulcer per patient can exceed $150,000, and back in 2007, Medicare estimated that each pressure ulcer added over $43,000 in costs to a hospital stay.
Minor cases of HAPIs most often manifest as skin discoloration (red or purple). But the coronavirus pandemic has exacerbated the problem of pressure injuries acquired in hospitals, especially for COVID-19 patients who required lengthy ICU care.
And pressure injuries are not just caused by immobility-induced friction. Many HAPIs are acquired from the prolonged pressure of a medical device. DailyNurse.com suggests more than 30% of all HAPIs are the result of intense and/or prolonged pressure on the skin that is in constant contact with a medical device, such as a ventilator.
The treatment of COVID-19 with a ventilator places patients in a prone position for lengthy periods of time, in order to increase oxygen saturation in the lungs. This causes pressure injuries to areas of the body such as the face, that pre-pandemic, were quite rare.
Can COVID-19 Cause Pressure Injuries?
According to DailyNurse.com, the National Pressure Injury Advisory Panel (NPIAP), says that SARS-COv-2, the virus that causes COVID-19, itself can induce skin changes that mimic a deep tissue pressure injury. After all, the coronavirus can injure organs and the skin is the largest organ in the body.
The virus causes blood to coagulate (blood becomes sticky and semi-solid) and chokes off blood flow in tiny blood vessels (capillaries). These physiological alterations cause the skin to turn purple, which is why it’s easy for a healthcare worker to confuse a pressure injury with coagulation.
Therefore, “it is important that wound care experts involved in the care of these patients have assessment skills that can help differentiate between HAPI and COVID-19 Coagulopathy,” the Panel concluded in a report.
This article was adapted from a longer version here.
Tags: Pressure injury lawsuits
Injury Match Staff
Related Articles
New York Sues Billionaire Family Behind OxyContin
Bayer & Other Big Ag Companies Hit With Antitrust Lawsuit Filed By Farmers
Bayer’s First Roundup Cancer Trial Win Is Over A Child’s Claim
Got Another Hernia? Do You Need Surgery If You Don’t Have Symptoms?
Monsanto Agrees To Pay Up To $45 Million To End Roundup Weed Killer Consumer Class Action
Talc Powder Litigation Stalls Passage of House Asbestos Ban
Trial Date Set For Paraquat Weedkiller Parkinson’s Lawsuits Despite Settlements
Boy Scouts Sex Abuse Claims Settled For $850 Million
All Tags
3M earplugs 3M earplugs lawsuit 3M lawsuit asbestos baby powder Bayer bayer ag CBD coronavirus COVID-19 diabetes dicamba Dwayne Lee Johnson elmiron lawsuit glyphosate hernia hernia mesh hernia mesh lawsuit hernia surgery IVC filter lawsuits IVC Filters johnson & johnson johnson & johnson baby powder Johnson & Johnson lawsuit Johnson & Johnson vaccine JUUL lawsuit mesothelioma Monsanto NDMA contamination opioid crisis opioid lawsuit Opioid lawsuits Oxycontin Purdue Pharma Roundup Roundup lawsuit Roundup settlement sackler family talc talc lawsuit talc powder lawsuit talcum powder tinnitus zantac zantac lawsuit
Fortunately, over thousands of generations, your body has developed incredible physiological coping mechanisms for adapting to stress. Unfortunately, this genetic adaptation didn’t involve adapting to chronic or long-term stress, with one exception - up until the last two hundred years or so, the only true chronic or long-term stress that man ever knew was famine. Today, our seemingly never-ending stress is resulting in non-stop stress hormone production that is undermining our health in many ways..
The very same stress hormones that are released under the prolonged duress of famine or starvation course through our blood stream when we experience prolonged stress in our modern world. These hormones change our global physiology and create a derangement of our metabolism. In other words, chronic stress promotes fat storage, high blood pressure, elevated blood sugar, elevated blood fats, and compromised immune function (read obesity, cardiovascular disease, diabetes and cancer). Specifically, a hormone called cortisol is released in times of stress. Among other things, cortisol promotes the accumulation of the intra-abdominal or visceral fat called omentum – also known as “stress gut.” The body’s creation of belly fat was originally intended for sustenance during the long, cold winter months when game was harder to come by. Today, we face a veritable triple-whammy with drive-thru burger joints, a horrifically sedentary lifestyle, and an abundance of emotional or mental stress.
FUEL: Eat Cleaner – lots of vegetables, healthy fats, and quality protein; no sugar, no grains, no processed vegetable oils
AIR: Move often – daily exercise to the point of exertion not only virtually erases the effects of stress, but will enable you to handle more stress before your body suffers from stress-induced breakdown.
SPARK: Go deep – get a handle on your sleep/rest schedule, your level of gratitude or thankfulness in your life, and feeding your mental/emotional self with ‘quiet time’, spiritual reading, and e-fasting (that’s deliberate periods no TV, computer, phone or internet)
Our modern ‘unnatural environment’ has led to an epidemic stress-derived chronic disease and the dreaded “stress-gut.” Beyond aesthetics, omentum is considered one of the strongest predictors of heart disease and cancer. This fat actually increases our blood pressure by pressing up against our kidneys – influencing the hormones that regulate blood pressure. Ironically, this same brilliant hormonal mechanism that helped man adapt and overcome the chronic stressors of yesterday is at the center of the number one killer of man today.
So what’s a human to do? Well people develop coping mechanisms. It has long been recognized that journaling your life’s experiences is one of the most effective strategies to manage stress. Each week you will engage your thoughts onto paper, answering thought-provoking and insightful questions to gain a greater understanding of how you think and the consequences of not only your thoughts but your reactions and how they affect all areas of your life, health and relationships. The first week’s Spark Journaling Exercises pertain to the Seven Lifetime Value Accounts (please read this for a detailed explanation of this concept and process).
At the crux of almost everyone’s mental stress are the demands placed on our limited resources; namely our time, energy, focus and money. The world seems to have an insatiable appetite for these things; everyday it seems that there are more demands and fewer resources. In the economy of our lives, we must recognize the need for strategies that protect our limited resources. If we are to be truly happy – and find peace of mind – we must strive to master managing these four assets. For example, in the area of money or personal finances, creating a ‘Peace of Mind Account’is one of those coping strategies that lead to a desired outcome.
Well people don’t necessarily experience any less stress; they simply develop better strategies and coping mechanisms for dealing with it. The Bonfire Health Program will empower you to choose healthier perspectives and responses to stress, as well as offering specific strategies and mechanisms for mitigating the effects of stress and reducing its occurrences. The Spark Insights will equip you with best practices and vital behaviors that have been proven effective by everyday people in real world settings.
U.S. BIOSCIENCE ETHYOL DOES NOT DECREASE SURVIVAL RATE :: Pink Sheet
U.S. BIOSCIENCE ETHYOL DOES NOT DECREASE SURVIVAL RATE
U.S. BIOSCIENCE ETHYOL DOES NOT DECREASE SURVIVAL RATE in patients with advanced epithelial ovarian cancer, John Click, MD, University of Pennsylvania, told the American Society of Clinical Oncology May 16 in Dallas. Click presented the results of a Phase III trial encompassing 200 ovarian cancer patients comparing treatment with a regimen of the chemoprotective agent Ethyol (amifostine) and the chemotherapy agents cyclophosphamide and cisplatin to treatment with cyclophosphamide and cisplatin alone.
HIV stigma trends in the general population during antiretroviral treatment expansion: analysis of 31 countries in sub-Saharan Africa, 2003-2013. | Physician's Weekly for Medical News, Journals & Articles
HIV stigma trends in the general population during antiretroviral treatment expansion: analysis of 31 countries in sub-Saharan Africa, 2003-2013.
Chan BT, Tsai AC,
Chan BT, Tsai AC, (click to view)
Journal of acquired immune deficiency syndromes (1999) 72(5) 558-64 doi 10.1097/QAI.0000000000001011
HIV-related stigma is associated with increased risk-taking behavior, reduced uptake of HIV testing, and decreased adherence to antiretroviral therapy (ART). Although ART scale-up may reduce HIV-related stigma, the extent to which levels of stigma in the general population have changed during the era of ART scale-up in sub-Saharan Africa is unknown.
Social distance and anticipated stigma were operationalized using standard HIV-related stigma questions contained in the Demographic and Health Surveys and AIDS Indicator Surveys of 31 African countries between 2003 and 2013. We fitted multivariable linear regression models with cluster-correlated robust standard errors and country fixed effects, specifying social distance or anticipated stigma as the dependent variable and year as the primary explanatory variable of interest.
We estimated a statistically significant negative association between year and desires for social distance (b = -0.020; P < 0.001; 95% confidence interval: -0.026 to -0.015) but a statistically significant positive association between year and anticipated stigma (b = 0.023; P < 0.001; 95% confidence interval: 0.018 to 0.027). In analyses stratified by HIV prevalence above or below the sample median, declines in social distancing over time were more pronounced among countries with a higher HIV prevalence. CONCLUSIONS
Concomitant with ART scale-up in sub-Saharan Africa, anticipated stigma in the general population increased despite a decrease in social distancing toward people living with HIV. Although ART scale-up may help reduce social distancing toward people living with HIV, particularly in high-prevalence countries, other interventions targeting symbolic or instrumental concerns about HIV may be needed.
Cayman Islands Biotechnology News Monitoring Service & Press Release Distribution - EIN News
A service for biotechnology industry professionals · Wednesday, December 19, 2018 · 471,557,184 Articles · 3+ Million Readers
Cayman Islands Biotechnology News ••• Topics • Cayman Islands Media Directory • Events
Cayman Islands Biotechnology News Monitoring Service
Down five points to the defending conference champion, the New England Patriots, with seven seconds to play on Sunday, Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill completed a pass that led to his team scoring a 69-yard, game-winning touchdown – what has been …
Ryan Tannehill turns to stem cells in Cayman Tackling sports injuries with regenerative medicine George Town, Grand Cayman, December 11, 2018 – With an injury in the second quarter, Miami Dolphins' quarterback, Ryan Tannehill, made a remarkable return in …
Dolphins' Ryan Tannehill has secret stash of stem cells
Follow CBSMIAMI.COM: Facebook | Twitter MIAMI (CBSMiami) – Miami Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill is playing some of the best football of his career. Now, we're learning that Tannehill is involved in a medical treatment that is popular among a growing …
Update on Cayman Islands' MRCU/Oxitec research collaboration
GRAND CAYMAN (GIS) – Government and UK-based biotechnology company Oxitec are entering the next stage of a collaborative research project. Begun in May 2018, the initiative seeks to pilot and assess the role of Oxitec's self-limiting, non-biting, maleAedes …
Cayman's genetically modified mosquito project has not worked as effectively as government hoped and will be abandoned, Health Minister Dwayne Seymour said Thursday. He told legislators that there were no plans for any further investment in the technology, …
Anonymous says: just get 23andme test; sign up under a fake name if you wish, it is certainly more secure. They run Black Friday family specials. I got it in 2012 and never regretted. It takes few clicks to see data on a particular gene. Lots of free …
Millions of genetically modified mosquitoes released in scheme to get ...
Accountants took a break from crunching numbers to learn about emotional intelligence and other skills Tuesday and Wednesday at the Cayman Islands Institute of Professional Accountants' annual summit. Jen Shirkani, author of the book "Ego vs. EQ," spoke …
CEC groundbreaking ceremony (L-R) Ministry Councillor David Wight, Commerce Minister Joseph Hew, Premier Alden McLaughlin, CEC CEO Charlie Kirkconnell, Deputy Premier Moses Kirkconnell, Financial Services Minister Tara Rivers, CEC Chief Development Officer …
By Claudica Kenol Floridians are all too familiar with the negative effects associated with mosquitoes. They are not just annoying, but they also known to be a large contributor of health problems. Mosquitoes played a huge role in the rapid spread of the …
USD $500 million master planned development to create 1 million square feet of office space for global knowledge-based businesses Cayman Enterprise City, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands (30 November 2018) – Construction has begun on a major development …
Here's how Ryan Tannehill's ankle is feeling and his post-miracle reflections
Ryan Tannehill was encouraged on multiple fronts Wednesday: about how his injured ankle is healing, about how he's playing and about the Dolphins playing meanigful games in December. Dolphins coach Adam Gase said Wednesday he was "shocked" Tannehill …
While Dolphins quarterback Ryan Tannehill continues one of the best stretches of his NFL career, thousands of his cells sit in a refrigerated lab, more than 400 miles away, in Grand Cayman, available for use if Tannehill sustains an orthopedic-related …
Over fifty students from Overseas Territories joined the UK Overseas Territories Association (UKOTA) at their third Overseas Students conference this month at the Natural History Museum (Flett Events Theatre), London. The event presented a great …
13 days 07:49:51
Load more biotechnology news or search news using your own keywords. There are 471,557,184 articles in our news database.
https://medical-dictionary.thefreedictionary.com/TGH
Dictionary, Encyclopedia and Thesaurus - The Free Dictionary 13,090,541,010 visitors served
EZTRAK - an end to end inventory management software, developed by TGH,providesacomplete inventory management solution to facilitate the back end organizational procedures such as Real-time inventory tracking of housekeeping, stationary, lunch coupons, parking sticker management etc.
The yields of the securitised estates under ASB, HVP and TGH in FY2012 were 25.6MT/ha, 22.3MT/ha and 27.1MT/ha respectively (FY2011: 21.9MT/ha, 21.8MT/ha, 23.5MT/ha) compared to Sabah's average of 22.6MT/ha (FY2011: 19.6MT/ha).
MARC affirms ratings on Dura Palms' Sukuk Ijarah series
The Golden Horns (TGH): Jukka [Harju] and Tuomo [Eerikainen] have masters of music degrees.
The creative hornist You Play!--you rock!
Clinical, microbiologic, and demographic data from TGH and SDC were analyzed by using STATA, Version 9.2 (StataCorp, LP, College Station, TX, USA).
This will contribute to further enhancing medical education, clinical research and superior healthcare services that will ultimately benefit the Lebanese community," said head of TGH's board of directors Fawaz Hallab said.
AUBMC inks collaboration deal with Tripoli Government Hospital
Ahmed Qasem Al-Ansi, head of TGH, said the Saudi team is headed by Dr.
Saudi surgeons perform free heart operations in Yemen
Saste that the child would be examined on admission to TGH? If so, why did Dr.
HSL and TGH are the main genes that play an important role in lipid metabolism in adipose tissue.
Patel made arrangements for his patient to be transported to Tampa General Hospital (TGH) by helicopter.
t [approximately equal to] [t.sub.s] tgh [square root of b] / [t.sub.s] (2)
The trial is being conducted at the Toronto General Hospital (TGH) of the University Health Network in collaboration with TGH's Multi Organ Transplant (MOT) Program.
AmCyte islet cell encapsulation transplanted without long-term immune suppression into patient with Type 1 diabetes
The TGH series HBTs are also surface passivated to ensure reliable operation in non-hermetic environments and currently utilize industry standard base station transistor packages.
Minimum 30 days required to cancel, £100 cancellation charge. Less than 30 days will result in £300 cancellation charge.
Full payment is required 4-6 weeks prior to start of hire, an additional £500 Security Deposit will be required, to cover cost in result of an accident or general damage, to cover costs, this would be returned within 24hrs, if no damage.
We require a copy of a minimum of 2 proofs of address, this can be household bills, CTax etc, must be the main Driver
Payments made via Bank Transfer, further details would be sent directly once booked, or to paypal.me/TaysideMotorhomehire
We love our customers, to visit our FB page and leave some comments and photos about their fantastic trips away.

The United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) in Libya resumed operations in Libya in September 2014. WFP’s General Food Assistance has been unconditional in-kind food assistance provision to vulnerable populations in Libya. WFP is also increasingly engaging across the humanitarian-development-peace nexus to support the review and rehabilitation of pre-crisis social protection systems.
The main purpose of the position is to help Programme team in performing the daily Programme follow up and tracking of activities during July and August.
Compile Programme data and support analysis Ensure accurate and timely recording of the monthly and emergency distributions data ;
