Confronting the Opioid Epidemic – A Comprehensive Treatment Approach - Odyssey House
Confronting the Opioid Epidemic – A Comprehensive Treatment Approach
Behavioral Health News, Fall (2) 2017
By Justin Mitchell, VP, Director of Residential Services & Daphne Juste, Clinical Support Coordinator
In collaboration with community partners, Odyssey House provides access to all three medications approved for the treatment of opioid use disorders. Access to methadone, buprenorphine, and naltrexone (oral and extended-release injectable) allows service recipients, clinicians, and medical providers to establish a treatment plan that meets an individual's assessed needs, motivation, and discharge plan.
National Academy of Inventors Names M2Gen Founder and CEO as Fellow | Moffitt
National Academy of Inventors Names M2Gen Founder and CEO as Fellow
TAMPA, Fla. (Dec. 11, 2013) —William S. Dalton, Ph.D., M.D., founder and CEO of M2Gen, a wholly owned subsidiary of Moffitt Cancer Center, and director of the DeBartolo Family Personalized Medicine Institute at Moffitt, has been named a fellow of the National Academy of Inventors. He joins Alan F. List, M.D., president and CEO of Moffitt, who was named a charter fellow in 2012.
Election to NAI fellow status is a professional distinction given to academic inventors who have demonstrated a prolific spirit of innovation in creating or facilitating outstanding inventions that have made a tangible impact on quality of life, economic development, and the welfare of society.
Dalton is the past president, CEO & center director of Moffitt (2002-12). He has received funding from the National Institutes of Health since 1985 and has focused his cancer research on the molecular mechanisms of drug resistance and new drug discovery. He has more than 200 publications and several patents. Dalton is pioneering the development of personalized cancer care and patient-centered outcomes research through Moffitt's Total Cancer Care® approach. Total Cancer Care, which harnesses one of the largest cancer tumor biorepositories and data warehouses, enables the right treatment for the right patient at the right time. For his leadership in this area, Dalton was recognized as the 2010 recipient of the Personalized Medicine Coalition's National Leadership in Personalized Medicine Award.
Dalton served as the president of the Association of American Cancer Institutes in 2012, chairs the Science Policy & Government Affairs Committee of the American Association for Cancer Research and serves on the Institute of Medicine's National Cancer Policy Forum.
Dalton is one of 143 innovators elected to NAI fellow status representing 94 universities and governmental and nonprofit research institutes. Together, they hold more than 5,600 U.S. patents.
Included in the 2013 class are 26 presidents and senior leadership of research universities and nonprofit research institutes, 69 members of the National Academies (IOM, NAS, NAE), five inductees of the National Inventors Hall of Fame, six recipients of the U.S. National Medal of Technology and Innovation, two recipients of the U.S. National Medal of Science and nine Nobel Laureates, among other major awards and distinctions.
The NAI Fellows will be inducted by Deputy U.S. Commissioner for Patents Andy Faile, from the United States Patent and Trademark Office, during the 3rd Annual Conference of the National Academy of Inventors, on Mar. 7 at the headquarters of the United States Patent and Trademark Office in Alexandria, Va. Fellows will be presented with a special trophy and a rosette pin.
Academic inventors and innovators elected to the rank of NAI Fellow were nominated by their peers for outstanding contributions to innovation in areas such as patents and licensing, innovative discovery and technology, significant impact on society, and support and enhancement of innovation.
The NAI Fellows Selection Committee is comprised of 13 Members including NAI Charter Fellows, recipients of U.S. National Medals, National Inventors Hall of Fame inductees, members of the National Academies and senior officials from the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Association of University Technology Managers, and the National Inventors Hall of Fame.
The full list of fellows can be viewed here.
The National Academy of Inventors® is a 501(c)(3) non-profit member organization comprised of U.S. and international universities, and governmental and non-profit research institutions, with over 3,000 individual inventor members and Fellows spanning more than 200 institutions, and growing rapidly. It was founded in 2010 to recognize and encourage inventors with patents issued from the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office, enhance the visibility of academic technology and innovation, encourage the disclosure of intellectual property, educate and mentor innovative students, and translate the inventions of its members to benefit society. The NAI edits the multidisciplinary journal, Technology and Innovation – Proceedings of the National Academy of Inventors, published by Cognizant Communication Corporation (NY). www.academyofinventors.org
Abstract 5334: Genome-wide copy number analysis reveals two novel loci for susceptibility to sporadic osteosarcoma | Cancer Research
Abstract 5334: Genome-wide copy number analysis reveals two novel loci for susceptibility to sporadic osteosarcoma
Rinnat M. Porat, Ivan Pasic, Adam Shlien, Nalan Golgoz, Irene Andrulis, Jay S. Wunder and David Malkin
1Hospital for SickKids, Toronto, Ontario, Canada
Nalan Golgoz
DOI: 10.1158/1538-7445.AM2011-5334 Published April 2011
Copy-number variants (CNVs) frequently overlap genomic regions that contain genes associated with cancer. In addition, copy number alterations (CNAs) often coincide with sites of CNVs and may arise through progression of CNVs. Osteosarcoma (OS), the most common human bone malignancy, can arise in familial or sporadic forms. While germline mutations of tumor suppressor genes have been implicated in some hereditary forms of OS, little is known about genetic changes that contribute to the etiology of sporadic OS. Using high-resolutation SNP/CNV arrays, we have observed a high global CNV frequency in patients with sporadic osteosarcoma. We hypothesized that these genomic alterations are linked to susceptibility to OS. Here we investigate whether CNAs in OS tumor DNA reflect extensive constitutional CNVs in OS patients and whether OS tumor CNAs arise by progression of constitutional CNVs in these patients.
Paired samples from blood and pre-therapy tumor biopsies of 44 OS patients were hybridized to Affymetrix GW 6.0 arrays and analyzed using Partek Genomics Suite and Nexus Copy Number™ software. Analysis focused on CNVs which fulfilled the following criteria: 1) absent from normal controls, 2) recurrent, 3) previously unreported, 4) mapped within or nearby known genes and 5) overlapped with paired tumour CNA. Regions identified in this analysis were validated as candidate regions by quantitative PCR.
Two candidate CNVs have been identified: a copy-number loss at 1q43 and a copy-number gain at 2p11.2. The copy number loss at 1q43 was present in DNA of 43% of the blood and 40% of tumor samples. 38% of the 1q43 deletions in the tumors were de novo events. This CNV is upstream of the centrosomal protein 170kDa gene (CEP170) which has been shown to maintain microtubule organization and cell morphology. As microtubule function is critical for proper chromosome segregation during cell division, copy-number change-driven dysregulation of CEP170 might be related to the characteristic genomic instability in OS. We are currently exploring this possibility via expression profiling. The copy-number gain at 2p11.2 was identified in 45% of the OS blood derived DNA and in 65% of those, the gain was also seen in matched tumor DNA. This CNV is in proximity to FLJ40330, a non-coding RNA, and to ribose 5-phosphate isomerase (RPI). A custom CGH array platform is currently being used to further characterize these loci on paired blood and tumor DNA samples from an additional cohort of OS patients.
These findings support the premise that excessive constitutional CNV is a hallmark of sporadic OS and may open new avenues for the discovery of novel specific CNVs and genes implicated in susceptibility to OS which may be of diagnostic and/or prognostic relevance.
Citation Format: {Authors}. {Abstract title} [abstract]. In: Proceedings of the 102nd Annual Meeting of the American Association for Cancer Research; 2011 Apr 2-6; Orlando, FL. Philadelphia (PA): AACR; Cancer Res 2011;71(8 Suppl):Abstract nr 5334. doi:10.1158/1538-7445.AM2011-5334
You are going to email the following Abstract 5334: Genome-wide copy number analysis reveals two novel loci for susceptibility to sporadic osteosarcoma
Chemical signals from the environment play an important role in refractoriness or acquired resistance to anti-angiogenic therapy [23], [24]. We investigated whether Bev-induced depletion of stromal VEGF affected tumor progression. When GFP-U87 spheroids were grafted in mice pretreated with high doses of Bev for one week prior to tumor implantation, tumor growth was inhibited by 58±10% (n = 5 Bev, n = 8 Control) already at its earliest stage of development when angiogenesis is still low (Figure 7A).
(A) Evolution of the tumor volume in mice pretreated with i.v. injections every 2 days of PBS (n = 8) or Bev (n = 5) for 1 week before tumor implantation. Tumor volume was normalized on the first day of visualization (day 0) and interpolated linearly between imaging sessions to take into account day of visualization mismatches between the two groups of mice. Interpolated data are indicated with squares linked together with dashed lines. A significant reduction of tumor volume was observed on D14 until it reached 58% on D28 similar to what observed upon continuous Bev treatment. (B–C) Tumor development and blood vessel density under AMD3100 treatment to prevent signaling by Stromal Derived Factor 1 alpha. Evolutions of mean tumor cell density (B) and mean blood vessel density (C) in control (n = 7) or AMD3100-treated (n = 6) mice (*, p<0.05). The average evolution under Bev is reported in gray for comparison. Blood vessel density was not significantly affected by AMD3100 treatment and remained significantly larger than the one observed under Bev on D21. (D) Evolution of the average tumor increase rate in control conditions and under AMD3100 treatment. Ratios between fluorescence intensities recorded in the same areas at one week interval have been averaged and evolution of this average was followed over the 3 weeks of treatment. Bev data are reported in gray for comparison. Reduction of tumor size is almost twice larger under AMD3100 than under Bev.
As VEGF producing cells often release Stromal Derived Factor 1 alpha that modulates microenvironment and acts on tumor growth [18], [25] we used an antagonist of its CXCR4 receptor, AMD3100 (1.25 mg/kg, twice daily), as an alternative to Bev to reduce tumor growth. As observed with Bev, tumor sensitivity to AMD3100 was variable (Figure 8), but potent inhibition was observed on average (Figure 7B) without significant reduction in blood vessel density (Figures 7C & S5). Growth rate reduction was sustained and always 50% more pronounced than under Bev (Figure 7B & 7D). Unlike Bev, AMD3100 was equally efficient at the core and at the periphery of the tumor (Figure S3). For comparison with in vivo data we used linear regressions to extrapolate a possible cumulative effect of the drug during one week, but the modest direct effect observed in culture (Figure S4E) was unable to account for the 46% reduction observed in vivo after one week. This was in agreement with a major stromal action of AMD3100.
(A–B) Mean projection images over a depth of 200 µm showing the evolution of tumor cell densities under AMD3100 (1.25 mg/kg twice daily) treatment in two mice whose tumor burden on D0 were similar (same mean fluorescence intensities within 16%, not shown). Treatment was initiated after the first visualization on D0. After 3 weeks, the tumor cell density was more than 2.5 times larger in B than in A. (C–D) Max intensity projection of the tumor cell densities (green outline) at D14 in a 30 µm section of the tumors presented in A, side by side with the corresponding projection images of the vascular network (red outline). Tumor margins are highlighted with yellow dotted lines. (C) Note the presence of tumor blood vessels compared to a similar size Bev treated tumor completely devoid of blood vessels shown in Figure 6C. (D) Dense tumor vascularization is even more obvious in the larger tumor. The highest vascular densities (double arrows) are not correlated with the highest tumor densities (single arrow). Scale bars, 400 µm.
We have developed a dedicated orthotopic GBM model and an imaging methodology to study the progression of genetically labeled tumor cells with respect to the evolution of local micro-vascularization. The presented model was validated using xenografts of U87, a widely used human GBM cell line and GL261, a murine GBM cell line. The approach can be extended to virtually any cell line derived from patient biopsies previously transfected to stably express a fluorescent reporter.
The advantage of our model resides in the enforcement of 3D isotropic tumor growth orthotopically implanted in the superficial layers of the brain. Compared to previously described models in which the dura mater is removed [2], we here avoid unwanted deposit of sub- and supra-dural cells, whose proliferation is overwhelming in absence of 3D matricial constraints. As such, our model resembled patients' GBM, for whom extradural growth is rare [26]. This also likely explains the slower progression we observed compared to previously published models using the same cell line [2]. Moreover, injecting cells as spheroids helped to confine the GBM tumor within a determined brain area, since micro-regional heterogeneities inside the brain likely influence proliferation and invasion patterns [27], [28].
Efforts were made to improve the reproducibility of the imaging protocols and to take full advantage of quantitative fluorescence measurements. Whereas in most studies, tumor progression is estimated from the size of the long and short axis of the tumor [1], [2], [29], we have monitored the evolution of cell densities in ROIs that were conserved over the whole experiment. Besides providing an accurate evaluation of tumor progression, the methodology allowed the characterization of tumor heterogeneities as we systematically imaged a major part of the tumor volume. Whereas cells of the same passage were orthotopically implanted, we evidenced that the Bev tumor inhibitory effect was variable between animals and tumor areas, an effect unlikely due to heterogenous molecular profiles of the cells.
Our U87 GBM model revealed several lines of evidence indicating that increases in tumor cell densities were in fact not fueled by blood vessels as initially thought [4], [30]. First, in the absence of Bev treatment we found cases where tumor vascularization disappeared within a few days without affecting tumor cell densities. Second, although in some instances blood vessel density and tumor cell density showed some degree of interdependence as indicated by the low p value for Pearson correlation for two different GBM cell lines, we never observed a strong correlation between local cell densities and local blood vessel density as indicated by the weakness of their determination coefficients. Therefore an increase or reduction of blood vessel density cannot be predictive of a proportional change in cell density. Pharmacologically targeting blood vessel density might thus be a sub-efficient strategy to fight tumor. Supporting this view, tumor inhibition under Bev was not correlated with the amplitude of blood vessel density reduction. The maximal effect on tumor cells was observed in the first week of treatment at a time when angiogenesis was weak in the control group. Progression rate then recovered to control values within two weeks despite the sustained blockade of angiogenesis. This observation dismissed the hypothesis that tumor escape might result from activation of VEGF independent angiogenic pathways [9], [17], [31]. Although anti-angiogenic treatments are often reported to trigger tumor cell invasion [32], we did not find any evidence for increased invasiveness in our U87 model. However, cells that would have migrated far from the tumor cannot be detected due limitations of the imaging field of view; additional analysis based on tissue sectioning and vimentin immunochemical tumor cell detection should further document this issue. Finally under AMD3100, massive angiogenesis was maintained despite a strong reduction of tumor cell densities.
Our observations indicated that angiogenesis was not required to improve tumor metabolism in our experiments. No specific difference between central, intermediary or peripheral regions of the tumor was observed regarding the dependence of tumor growth on blood vessel density. This finding might be explained by the fact that GBM tumor cells grow inside the already densely vascularized healthy brain (Video S1) where 20% of the most oxygenated blood of the body is drained and distributed in real time according to the needs. Moreover, tumor cells have been shown to depend more on nutrients supply than on oxygen for their energy production [33]. GBM growth would therefore not require increased access to oxygen, but access to nutrients whose supply is already optimally organized in the brain to support energy expensive neuronal activity. A dense network of astrocytes [34] and a rich cerebrospinal fluid [35], [36] can provide nutrients in addition to blood. Angiogenesis independent tumor growth has already been reported [37], [38] and in that case average blood supply inside the tumor was even lower than in healthy brain.
Altogether our results obtained on a U87 tumor model support the challenging view that GBM growth is not directly related to blood vessel density. Yet the reason for such tumoral vascular remodeling remains to be elucidated. A possibility would be that tumor angiogenesis as well as tumor growth are promoted by inflammation [6], [39], [40], [41]. Inflammatory cells indeed shape the tumor micro-environment [42], [43] eventually promoting tumor growth [24], [40], [44], [45]. Our methodology should serve future studies to test whether the reported immuno-modulatory effect of anti-VEGF therapies [24], [40], [46], [47] or anti-SDF1 alpha therapies [45], [48] could account for the anti-angiogenic and anti-tumoral effects reported here.
On Behalf of Ayers, Whitlow & Dressler | Nov 29, 2018 | Personal Injury
To some extent, the practice of medicine remains an art as opposed to an exact science. This is because even the best doctors in the Charlotte area, when they diagnose a patient's conditions, are in reality making an educated guess based on the information they have.
On the other hand, a misdiagnosis can cause enormous problems for a patient. In the best cases, it can mean a critical delay in treating the patient's true condition, while in the worst cases, the misdiagnosis itself could make the patient's overall physical health worse.
Whether a misdiagnosis is legally actionable depends heavily on how the doctor came about reaching it. Generally speaking, a doctor is supposed to list all possible conditions that she believes could be causing the patient's symptoms early on in the process.
The doctor lists these conditions in the order of likelihood that each is the cause of the patient's ailment. She then goes down the list ruling out each condition until she comes to a diagnosis.
AUCD - News from the Healthy Weight Research Network (HWRN)
News from the Healthy Weight Research Network (HWRN)
(1) The Healthy Weight Research Network (HWRN), coordinated by the E.K. Shriver Center at UMass Medical School and Tufts University School of Medicine, was refunded for the next 5 years from the Maternal Child Health Bureau. The mission of the HWRN is to advance the understanding of obesity risk factors in children with ASD and other developmental disabilities, to promote the development of evidence-based solutions to achieve healthy weight in this population, and to disseminate research findings to broad and diverse audiences.
(2) The HWRN held its first symposium on May 11, 2016 in Baltimore, MD. The symposium, entitled Promoting Healthy Weight In Children and Youth With Autism Spectrum Disorder and Developmental Disabilities: Current Research and Future Directions, featured presentations by HWRN Core and Associate Members on the following topics: (1) The prevalence and risk factors for obesity in children with Autism Spectrum Disorder and developmental disabilities; (2) Eating behaviors and parent feeding practices in children with ASD; (3) Physical activity participation among youth with ASD; Interventions promoting physical activity and weight loss in adolescents with developmental disabilities; and (4) Supporting physical activity and recreation in the community: a community-based participatory research feasibility study for increasing physical activity with adolescents with ASD.
(3) The HWRN's Secondary Data Analysis Core recently completed and published the results of two analyses using data from the National Survey of Children's Health documenting the elevated prevalence of obesity in children and youth with intellectual disabilities and also autism. The citations and links to these papers are listed below.
Segal, M., Eliasziw, M., Phillips, S., Bandini, L., Curtin, C., Kral, T. V., ... & Must, A. (2016). Intellectual disability is associated with increased risk for obesity in a nationally representative sample of US children. Disability and health journal, 9(3), 392-398.
See: http://www.disabilityandhealthjnl.com/article/S1936-6574(15)00208-3/abstract
Must, A., Eliasziw, M., Phillips, S. M., Curtin, C., Kral, T. V., Segal, M., ... & Bandini, L. G. (2016). The effect of age on the prevalence of obesity among us youth with autism spectrum disorder. Childhood Obesity.
See: http://online.liebertpub.com/doi/abs/10.1089/chi.2016.0079
Please visit www.HWRN.org for more information and please consider becoming an Associate Member or Subscriber. Any inquiries about the HWRN can be directed to [email protected]
PRIVACY POLICY | VizuaMatix | Cutting Edge Solutions for Telco & Finance
TELCO SOLUTIONS HUB
FINTECH CENTRAL
VIZUAMATIX LEADERSHIP
Effective date: March 7, 2022
Welcome to VizuaMatix (Pvt) Ltd..
We may update our Privacy Policy from time to time. If we make changes to this Privacy Policy, we will post the revised policy notice here and update the effective date.
If you have any questions about this Privacy Policy, please contact us by email: info@vizuamatix.com.
SERVICE means the www.vizuamatix.com website operated by VizuaMatix (Pvt) Ltd.
2. DFINITIONS
VizuaMatix (Pvt) Ltd. uses the collected data for various purposes:
If you are located outside United States, Australia, Singapore and choose to provide information to us, please note that we transfer the data, including Personal Data, to United States, Australia, Singapore and process it there.
VizuaMatix (Pvt) Ltd. will take all the steps reasonably necessary to ensure that your data is treated securely and in accordance with this Privacy Policy and no transfer of your Personal Data will take place to an organisation or a country unless there are adequate controls in place including the security of your data and other personal information.
VizuaMatix (Pvt) Ltd. ("us", "we", or "our") operates www.vizuamatix.com (hereinafter referred to as "Service").
Our Privacy Policy governs your visit to www.vizuamatix.com, and explains how we collect, safeguard and disclose information that results from your use of our Service.
5.1. to provide and maintain our Service;
5.2. to notify you about changes to our Service;
5.3. to allow you to participate in interactive features of our Service when you choose to do so;
5.4. to provide customer support;
5.5. to gather analysis or valuable information so that we can improve our Service;
5.6. to monitor the usage of our Service;
5.7. to detect, prevent and address technical issues;
5.8. to fulfil any other purpose for which you provide it;
5.9. to carry out our obligations and enforce our rights arising from any contracts entered into between you and us, including for billing and collection;
5.10. to provide you with notices about your account and/or subscription, including expiration and renewal notices, email-instructions, etc.;
5.11. to provide you with news, special offers and general information about other goods, services and events which we offer that are similar to those that you have already purchased or enquired about unless you have opted not to receive such information;
5.12. in any other way we may describe when you provide the information;
5.13. for any other purpose with your consent.
8.1. Disclosure for Law Enforcement.
8.2. Business Transaction.
8.3. Other cases. We may disclose your information also:
8.3.1. to our subsidiaries and affiliates;
8.3.2. to contractors, service providers, and other third parties we use to support our business;
8.3.3. to fulfill the purpose for which you provide it;
8.3.4. for the purpose of including your company's logo on our website;
8.3.5. for any other purpose disclosed by us when you provide the information;
8.3.6. with your consent in any other cases;
8.3.7. if we believe disclosure is necessary or appropriate to protect the rights, property, or safety of the Company, our customers, or others.
If you wish to be informed what Personal Data we hold about you and if you want it to be removed from our systems, please email us at info@vizuamatix.com.
10.1. the right to access, update or to delete the information we have on you;
10.2. the right of rectification. You have the right to have your information rectified if that information is inaccurate or incomplete;
10.3. the right to object. You have the right to object to our processing of your Personal Data;
10.4. the right of restriction. You have the right to request that we restrict the processing of your personal information;
10.5. the right to data portability. You have the right to be provided with a copy of your Personal Data in a structured, machine-readable and commonly used format;
10.6. the right to withdraw consent. You also have the right to withdraw your consent at any time where we rely on your consent to process your personal information;
11.1. users can visit our site anonymously;
11.2. our Privacy Policy link includes the word "Privacy", and can easily be found on the home page of our website;
11.3. users will be notified of any privacy policy changes on our Privacy Policy Page;
11.4. users are able to change their personal information by emailing us at info@vizuamatix.com.
12.1. What personal information we have about you. If you make this request, we will return to you:
12.1.1. The categories of personal information we have collected about you.
12.1.2. The categories of sources from which we collect your personal information.
12.1.3. The business or commercial purpose for collecting or selling your personal information.
12.1.4. The categories of third parties with whom we share personal information.
12.1.5. The specific pieces of personal information we have collected about you.
12.1.6. A list of categories of personal information that we have sold, along with the category of any other company we sold it to. If we have not sold your personal information, we will inform you of that fact.
12.1.7. A list of categories of personal information that we have disclosed for a business purpose, along with the category of any other company we shared it with.
To exercise your California data protection rights described above, please send your request(s) by email: info@vizuamatix.com.
4.1. Email address
4.2. First name and last name
4.3. Phone number
4.4. Address, Country, State, Province, ZIP/Postal code, City
4.5. Cookies and Usage Data
YOUR DATA PROTECTION RIGHTS UNDER THE CALIFORNIA PRIVACY PROTECTION ACT (CALOPPA)
YOUR DATA PROTECTION RIGHTS UNDER THE CALIFORNIA CONSUMER PRIVACY ACT (CCPA)
© 2022 VizuaMatix Pte Ltd. All Rights Reserved.
Telco Hub
Singapore 🇸🇬 (Head Office) - 23 New Industrial Road #04-08 Solstice Business Center Singapore 536209
Melbourne 🇦🇺 (Subsidiary) - EdgeZro Pty Ltd, Suite 1001, Waterman Business Centre Chadstone VIC 3148 Australia | (+61) 422 339 477
Luxembourg (Business Partner) - IT Works S.A, 11, rue de Bitbourg L-1273 Luxembourg
Rwanda (Business Partner) - Signa Ltd, 3rd Floor La Bonne Adresse Building B.P. 1895, Kigali, Republic of Rwanda
The value of interventional radiology in current combat environments • Military Medicine Worldwide
The main feature of interventional radiology is that it provides imaging guidance during therapeutic intervention, whereby all forms of radiological media can be used (CT, ultrasound, fluoroscopy). Particular successes have been achieved with CT-guided intervention under damage control conditions in Camp Marmal in Mazar-e-Sharif (MES), the base of the Bundeswehr in Afghanistan. To illustrate this, we outline three selected cases in the following:
• CT-guided osteosynthesis in a case of fracture of the femoral neck
• CT-guided kyphoplasty in a case of vertebral fracture
• CT-guided pain management in a case of disc herniation
Used for all CT procedures in the field hospital at Camp Marmal was a six-slice CT scanner (Somatom Emotion, Siemens, Forchheim, Germany).
Case 1: Fracture of the femoral neck
Fracture of the femoral neck. The position of the bore holes was prepared and evaluated by CT. The positioning of the osteosynthesis screws was checked during a final review.
A married couple were involved in a road accident and brought to the field hospital. Both patients had suffered a medial fracture of the femoral neck – on the right in the case of the man and on the left in the case of the woman. Because of associated injuries to the lower leg, it was decided that it would be preferable to perform open surgery on the man. Following a diagnostic examination, the woman was referred for CT-guided percutaneous osteosynthesis in order to provide definitive remedial treatment as rapidly as possible.
After positioning of the patient, analgo-sedation was induced as was local anaesthesia under sterile conditions. Using a multiplanar intervention approach, the ideal work trajectory was first established. A guide sleeve was introduced into a stab incision so that a bone drill could be positioned at the correct angle. The angle of the bone drill was reviewed in multiple planes. The bore holes were prepared and evaluated with the help of CT. The use of this technique also made it possible to determine the ideal screw length. After the holes had been prepared using a thread cutter, the osteosynthesis screws were introduced and their positioning checked during a final review. Average time required for the introduction of each screw was 23 minutes. Immediately after surgery, the patient was stabilised for mobilisation.
An Afghan patient involved in a road accident (the vehicle had overturned) was brought to the emergency room of the field hospital of Camp Marmal in Mazar-e-Sharif (MES). Seen in computer tomography was a fracture of vertebrae T12 and L1 (Magerl A1.2). The patient was suffering extreme pain.
As the patient could not be hospitalised and a long period of immobilisation was not feasible, it was decided to perform kyphoplasty under damage control conditions. For this purpose, i.v. analgo-sedation was first induced and kyphoplasty needles were inserted in each of the vertebrae in question from the right hand side using a transpedicular approach under CT guidance. A kyphoplasty balloon was put in place and its positioning reviewed by means of CT. The bone cement was injected into the vertebrae through the needles. During final CT review, the cement was seen to be adequately distributed. The patient was kept under observation for a brief period of 4 hours after completion of surgery, and was then discharged in pain-free status.
Case 3: Disc herniation
A soldier reported with acute left-side lumbosciatica. Seen in CT was a left paramedial disc herniation at L5/S1 with associated discogenic recess stenosis at S1 left. There was no loss of strength. For purposes of acute pain management, an epidural interlaminar injection was recommended. The interventional procedures were planned, the patient placed in the prone position and a needle was introduced via the interlaminar epidural pathway into the spinal canal under sterile conditions and with the aid of CT guidance.
After the correct positioning of the needle had been confirmed, a mixture of a local anaesthetic, a corticosteroid and tramadol was injected. Following complication-free instillation, the patient was spontaneously almost completely pain-free. A second injection was given 2 days later, after which the patient no longer experienced any pain and was able to remain on duty in Afghanistan.
Vertebral fracture. CT showed a fracture of vertebrae T12 and L1 (Magerl A1.2). Under CT guidance kyphoplasty procederes were performed and its positioning reviewed. During final CT review, the bone cement was seen to be adequately distributed.
Computer tomography is a technique that provides for excellent diagnosis and visualisation of fractures and disc herniations. It also makes it possible to directly plan intervention with the aid of multiplanar views and in many cases it also facilitates image-guided, percutaneous minimally invasive primary intervention. With regard to radiation hygiene, there is no need for operator and surgical team to be exposed to radiation, as is the case when continual fluoroscopy is used, as these can leave the CT room for the period in which the CT scan is performed. There are also other ways in which exposure to radiation can be reduced during routine use (e.g. use of a sequential scan protocol with appropriate gantry tilting, manual KV and mAs reduction).
Because of the associated risk of aseptic necrosis of the head of the femur, fractures of the femoral neck must be treated as rapidly as possible. In this context, CT-guided osteosynthesis is a speedy and effective therapeutic option that can be performed under damage control conditions and which requires minimal personnel and material resources. The standard approach to dealing with Magerl type A fractures of the thoracolumbar region is either conservative (involving the corresponding prolongation of pain symptoms) or surgical, with the use of an internal fixation and ventral fusion as necessary (coupled with all the risks and expenses associated with surgery). A less invasive alternative is kyphoplasty, a technique which represents a favourable combination of the benefits and potential risks of the conservative and macrosurgical approaches.
Military requirements and the lack of the necessary infrastructure will normally exclude the possibility of rapid surgical intervention in cases of vertebral disc herniation in the field. In cases in which there is no loss of motor abilities, CT-guided epidural injection represents a safe and effective alternative for pain management. The supplementation of the solution with tramadol had a particularly beneficial effect.
Interventional radiology in combat environments provides a wide range of options with the aid of which highly precise emergency treatment can be provided under damage control conditions. CT-guided percutaneous intervention (in the cases of osteosynthesis of a femoral neck fracture, kyphoplasty in the thoracolumbar region and interlaminar epidural injection described above) made possible effective, safe, minimally invasive and resource-sparing primary treatment of the conditions. In certain situations, the technique is a practical supplement or even alternative to the standard open surgery damage control procedures used at level III.
Treatment of Parkinson's Disease with Energy Healing | Tong Ren Station
Printable version of "Treatment of Parkinson's Disease with Energy Healing"
This article is a new look at Parkinson's disease, can effectively be treated with energy healing?
By Aimee W. De Barbieri Lic. Ac
According to the Parkinson's disease Foundation 1 to 1.5 million Americans suffer from Parkinson's disease, and each year approximately 40,000 more Americans are diagnosed with this illness. Parkinson's disease is a disorder most commonly affecting people over the age of 50 and is characterized by hypokinesia, the slowing down of movements. When we consult our neuroscience textbooks we find that most patients with Parkinson's have lost more than 80% of the dopamine-utilizing neurons in their substantia nigra. Anatomically locating this influential part of the brain becomes important as we look to clinically treat and restore function in this area.
The characteristics of Parkinson's are related to an increased inhibition of the thalamus by the basal ganglia causing a paucity of movement, whereas decreased basal ganglia output leads to the opposite, an excess of movement. According to the neuroscience and anatomy textbooks Parkinson's disease is considered a basal ganglia disorder due to the degeneration of neurons that extend from the substantia nigra to the basal ganglia. Our treatment focuses on this degenerated area.
The symptoms of this disorder include slowness of movement (bradykinesia), difficulty in initiating willed movements (akinesia), increased muscle tone (rigidity), and tremors of the hands and jaw that are most prominent at rest. The basis of this degenerative disease takes place in the substantia nigra where there is a breakdown in this part of the brain's ability to input to the striatum. These inputs use the neurotransmitter dopamine (DA) to facilitate the direct motor loop by activating cells in the putamen. The depletion of dopamine closes the funnel that feeds activity to SMA via the basal ganglia. However, what do we do when there is a sufficient amount of dopamine, yet the Parkinson's symptoms do not resolve? In many cases, dopamine is supplied to the patient but their symptoms remain. We must consider that the biochemical function is doing well, but that neurologically the signals are still not passing sufficiently.
Type 2 diabetes is potentially reversible via an 8-week, very low-calorie diet followed by careful weight management for up to 6 months, new research shows.
The findings were published online March 21, 2016 in Diabetes Care by Dr Sarah Steven of Newcastle University, United Kingdom, and colleagues.
"At the time of diagnosis, everyone should be told that type 2 diabetes is potentially reversible by substantial weight loss. For people with type 2 diabetes who resent their loss of health, there is a genuine way out. It's not an easy option but to be carefully considered, planned, and discussed with spouse or partner," lead investigator Dr Roy Taylor, also of Newcastle University, told Medscape Medical News.
In the study of 30 overweight or obese adults with type 2 diabetes of durations from 6 months to 23 years, weight fell significantly following an 8-week mostly liquid diet of 600 to 700 calories a day, and 12 of the 30 individuals (40%) achieved an average fasting plasma glucose (FPG) level of less than 126 mg/dL.
After a further 6 months of an intensive, individualized weight-management program, 13 of 30 (43%) maintained an FPG below 126 mg/dL while off all glucose-lowering medications.
"Substantial weight loss can be achieved only by severe calorie restriction….The transition from low-calorie liquid diet to normal eating requires very careful management. This two-step approach to substantial weight loss is successful, unlike current beliefs about how to lose weight," Dr Taylor said.
But obesity expert Arya M Sharma, MD, from University of Alberta, Edmonton, is skeptical: "The fact that a low-calorie diet can reverse diabetes is something we've known a long time….The key issue here is not whether weight loss can actually reverse diabetes or put it into remission but the durability of the effect….As far as obesity-management trials, 6 months is not long."
Dr Sharma added, "It's a proof-of-principle study showing that if you lose weight through a diet, there's a good chance your diabetes will go into remission. But by the same note, if you put the weight back on, your diabetes is going to come back."
The 8-week very low-calorie diet consisted of a three-times daily liquid formula containing 43% carbohydrates, 34% protein, and 19.5% fat, providing about 624 kcal/day. Subjects were also allowed to eat nonstarchy vegetables and were encouraged to drink at least 2 L/day of calorie-free beverages and to maintain normal activities. One-to-one support was provided via telephone, email, text messages, or face-to-face contact.
After the 8 weeks, solid food was gradually introduced in weight-maintaining quantities (approximately 1600 to 2000 kcal per day, although the focus was on weight of food portions).
Studies were conducted a minimum of 6 days after full return to solid foods. Diabetes remission was defined as an FPG of less than 126 mg/dL, and that level was used to define "responders" to the very low-calorie diet.
During the 6-month weight-maintenance phase, participants received a structured individualized program that included goal setting, action planning, and barrier identification, with monthly reviews.
Subjects with fasting glucose levels exceeding 180 mg/dL on two occasions were put on glucose-lowering medications. Only one patient was excluded after (deliberately) not achieving the minimum 3.8% weight-loss target, leaving 29 in the final sample.
For the entire group, weight fell from 98.0 kg at baseline to 83.8 kg during the very low-calorie diet (P < .001) and remained at 84.7 kg after 6 months.
The participants who achieved the FPG of less than 126 mg/dL after return to weight-maintaining solid food were dubbed responders.
In the responders, FPG fell from 160 mg/dL to 112 mg/dL (P = .002) in the maintenance phase and remained constant at about 111.6 mg/dL without any glucose-lowering drugs. In nonresponders, FPG fell from 238 mg/dL to 196 mg/dL (P = .016) and remained constant at 169.2 mg/dL.
The rise in FPG over the 2 weeks from the end of the very low-calorie diet to establishment on an isocaloric diet was significantly greater in nonresponders, of whom six restarted diabetes medications during the 6-month maintenance period.
HbA1c remained stable throughout the 6-month period in both groups (responders 5.8% to 5.9%, P = .540, and nonresponders 8.0% to 7.8%, P = .481).
Both responders and nonresponders maintained significant improvements in blood pressure, triglycerides, and non-HDL cholesterol levels after the very low-calorie diet and maintained those levels over the 6-month maintenance period.
Achieved weight loss after the very low-calorie diet was similar between the responders and nonresponders (15.8% vs 13.6%, P = 0.06), and weight remained constant over 6 months in both groups.
The responders had a shorter diabetes duration (3.8 vs. 9.8 years, P = .007) and were younger (52.0 vs. 59.9, P = .032) than nonresponders. Responders also had lower fasting glucose levels (P < .001) and higher serum insulin levels at baseline (P = 0.005) and achieved fasting glucose level correlated positively with diabetes duration (P = .001).
Plasma insulin levels fell in both groups after the very low-calorie diet and remained stable throughout the weight-maintenance phase.
First-phase insulin response was markedly reduced at baseline in nonresponders compared with responders (P = .002). The response improved in the responders (P = .03), and there was a small increase in the nonresponders (P = .04). First-phase insulin secretion did not change over the weight-maintenance period in either responders or nonresponders.
"The people with very long duration of diabetes simply did not return to nondiabetic blood sugar levels. We showed that this was due to their pancreases having passed a point of no return — after 10 or more years of diabetes their insulin-producing cells had truly failed. However, this process of failure is stopped in its tracks by the weight loss," Dr Taylor commented.
But Is This a Practical Approach? Only Time will Tell
Dr Sharma doesn't disagree with the findings but simply doubts this is achievable for most people.
"This is not a real-life study. This is a proof-of-principle study that reminds us that weight loss can lead to remission of diabetes. What it really points us to is the need for better obesity treatments. Although this treatment was effective in this study, it's not a practical approach for treating obesity in the long term."
Nonetheless, at least two other studies using the very low-calorie approach are ongoing, both of them funded by the commercial Cambridge Weight Plan.
The Diabetes Remission Clinical Trial (DIRECT), from Dr Taylor's group, will randomize about 150 obese people with type 2 diabetes to either an 800-kcal/day liquid diet or usual care for 8 to 20 weeks, followed by food reintroduction and a 2-year observation period to document durability.
The other, larger study, called PREVIEW, is investigating a similar approach in more than 2000 adults with prediabetes in eight European centers. That study starts with an 800- to 1000-kcal/day diet, and those who lose at least 8% of their initial weight will enter weight-loss maintenance programs. Results from that study, funded by an EU grant, are expected in 2018.
The current study was funded by a National Institute of Health Research Newcastle Biomedical Research Center Grant and a Novo Nordisk UK Research Foundation Research Fellowship. The funders had no input on any aspect of the study design or writing. Nestle UK provided OPTIFAST on request but had no other input on the research. Dr Taylor has received lecture fees from Novartis, Novo Nordisk, and Lilly and for contribution to running a European Association for the Study of Diabetes workshop from Nestle. The coauthors have no relevant financial relationships. Dr Sharma serves as an advisor/consultant for Novo Nordisk, Takeda, Ethicon, and Zafgen.
