Gastric Balloon – Osama Taha Academy
Gastric Balloon is a relatively new, non-invasive bariatric procedure developed to "bridge the gap" between pure diet and exercise and a more complicated bariatric procedure like Gastric Sleeve surgery. It is one of the quickest and simplest bariatric procedures, usually involving a minimal amount of time in the hospital.
Once you are set up in the treatment room, the procedure usually begins with your throat being numbed by a spray. The numbing sensation may feel strange, but it will help your throat tolerate the instruments used in the procedure. If you wish, you can also ask for an injection to make you feel sleepy, but these options will be discussed with you beforehand.
After you are comfortable, the nurse will insert a plastic mouth guard between your teeth to keep your mouth open for the scope. The scope will then be passed through your mouth and into your stomach. This will not be painful and you will be able to breath without worry. The doctor may also need to pass some air down the scope to have a clear view. This too can be a strange feeling and it may make you want to belch.
The scope will then be removed, the balloon passed into your stomach, and then inflated with either air or saline solution. Finally, the scope will be passed into your stomach one final time to double check the balloon is in the right position and properly inflated.
Life after "Gastric Balloon" Surgery
To maintain the weight loss over time after surgery, patient must follow new eating habits and the given diet instructions. The doctor designs a diet guidance and some food Recommendations to suit the patient's case.
After surgery it is a must to modify your diet on different stages, where you start with a drinks diet then a pureed food. Then you start eating small amounts of a usual healthy foods. Therefore, less volume of food is digested by the patient than he used to do before the surgery.
Act 143: School Safety Assessments, Safety Plans, Drills and Reporting | Safety & Security
In March 2018, the Wisconsin Legislature enacted Act 143 to encourage school districts to analyze and improve emergency procedures and protocols. As a part of Act 143, districts are required to conduct annual school safety assessments and submit school safety plans annually to the Wisconsin Department of Justice's Office of School Safety. Act 143 also requires schools to conduct school violence drills and for school districts to train all staff on Mandatory Reporting of School Violence Threats.
We completed our first assessments in November 2018 and will be assessing all schools annually in order to continually revise and strengthen our safety and security systems and structures.
The assessments gave us an opportunity to capture each school's existing safety practices and protocols and look closely at building access, visitor procedures, security staffing, supervision of students, climate survey data, after-hours security, transportation, physical and mental health services, crisis communications, community-building techniques and more, as they relate to school safety.
Through the process we identify areas of strength and also opportunities for improvement and standardization across the district, including technology, building signage, building access and communication.
In fall 2018 we developed comprehensive written safety plans for each school and submitted these plans to the school board and to the Wisconsin Department of Justice's Office of School Safety.
The plans outline strategies preventing incidents from taking place, how we are prepared for them if they do occur, what our response looks like and our steps for recovering from an incident.
Read our public District Safety Plan.
Individual school safety plans supplement the district plan and contain confidential information that staff, the district and emergency responders would need in an emergency. Examples include school safety team emergency contact information, a breakdown of staff and students, bus lists, traffic safety plans, any safety hazards in the area, a map of cameras, floor plans, evacuation sites, information about surrounding neighborhoods and so on.
The plans establish a baseline and will serve as guides as we continue to evaluate and update them annually.
Emergency drills help students practice what they learn. These include nine fire drills, two tornado drills, two school safety incident drills (such as Evacuate, Hold, or Lockout), and a "school violence event" drill (Lockdown). Schools will communicate with you when these drills take place.
All school district employees are required to report any threat -- whether spoken, written or symbolic -- to law enforcement (this includes Educational Resource Officers) if they believe that there is a serious and imminent threat to the health or safety of others.
Terry Eaton
Feds Uncover Health Care Fraud and Drug Dealing Scheme That Brings Down 2 Doctors and a "Patient Recruiter"
On February 11, 2015, Dr. Hussein "Sam" Awada, 45, of Royal Oak, Michigan pleaded guilty to conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute prescription drugs without a legitimate medical purpose, in violation of 21 U.S.C. Sections 841 and 846, and with defrauding a health care program in violation of 18 U.S.C. Section 1347. According to a Department of Justice Press Release, Awada pleaded guilty in United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. According to The Detroit News he is scheduled to be sentenced by Judge Nancy Edmunds on June 4, 2015. Awada faces a maximum sentence of 20 years' incarceration for conspiracy to commit narcotics trafficking and a maximum sentence of 10 years' incarceration for health care fraud. As a condition of his guilty plea, Awada agreed to forfeit his ownership interest in his medical clinic and an adjacent Mediterranean café and agreed to voluntarily forfeit his DEA license to write medical prescriptions. Awada also will be banned from future participation in health care programs such as Medicare, Medicaid, and all other federal health care programs. Finally, Awada agreed to cooperate with prosecutors and federal law enforcement in their ongoing investigation.
According to Awada's plea agreement with the U.S. Attorney's Office, beginning in December 2010 through February 2012, Dr. Awada conspired with co-defendant James Lyons to distribute unlawful narcotics on the streets. As a part of their scheme, Lyons acted as a "recruiter" and brought patients to Awada's "Midwest Family Practice" medical clinic in Warren, Michigan. In turn, Dr. Awada would fraudulently bill Medicare, Medicaid, and Blue Cross Blue Shield for health care services that were either not provided at all or were provided but were medically unnecessary. Then, Dr. Awada would write prescriptions for Oxycodone and Roxicodone, which these patients did not need. Lyons then sold these prescriptions on the streets for profit in the illegal drug market. These unlawful prescriptions resulted in 80,000 30mg Oxycodone and Roxicodone pills being illegally sold. Additionally, the fraudulent billings to Medicare, Medicaid, and Blue Cross Blue Shield amounted to $23 million dollars in services that were either unnecessary or not provided. The DOJ reported that Lyons pleaded guilty earlier in the case and was sentenced to 48 months' incarceration for his role. Finally, Dr. Luis Collazo, 55, of Farmington Hills, Michigan also pleaded guilty to conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute a controlled substance. Dr. Collazo practiced together with Dr. Awada at "Midwest Family Practice." Dr. Collazo is also scheduled to be sentenced on June 4, 2015.
18 U.S.C. Section 1347 makes it a federal offense to knowingly and intentionally agree with another person to obtain money or property from any health care program by fraud. Fraud is essentially making a material misrepresentation for financial or other pecuniary gain. CNN Money reported that health care fraud costs American taxpayers $100 billion dollars annually. With so many more people now covered by health care insurance as a result of the 2009 Affordable Care Act (ACA), federal prosecutors are cracking down on alleged health care fraud. Dr. Awada and his co-defendants were investigated by the Drug Enforcement Administration (DEA), the Federal Bureau of Investigations (FBI), and the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of the Inspector General (DHHS OIG). In the wake of the passage of the ACA, the DOJ and HHS created the Health Care Fraud Prevention and Enforcement Action Team (HEAT). In FY2013 the HEAT joint task force reported a record breaking $4.3 billion dollars in recovered taxpayer dollars due to alleged health care fraud.
Federal health care fraud charges are serious criminal offenses. Anyone being investigated for or charged with health care fraud faces incarceration, forfeiture of assets, heavy fines, restitution payments, and supervised release after incarceration. Additionally, if convicted of health care fraud, health care providers such as medical doctors, nurses, licensed home health care aid workers, physical therapists, and others could potentially lose their licenses and be banned from future participation in all federal health care programs. Not to mention that a federal felony conviction most certainly would have devastating long term consequences to one's professional reputation and ability to gain meaningful employment in one's profession in the future.
Health care providers who suspect they are being investigated for or will be charged with health care fraud related offenses, should consult with an experienced white collar criminal defense attorney, knowledgeable about federal health care fraud prosecutions. If you suspect that an employee in your practice is involved in health care fraud, consider retaining the services of a white collar criminal defense attorney to: (1) conduct a thorough internal investigation, (2) report any wrong doing to management, (3) take remedial and/or disciplinary action, and (4) recommend meaningful compliance programs that will help avoid future instances of health care fraud.
Terry Eaton is the Founder and Principal at the Eaton Law Firm, PLLC. Mr. Eaton focuses his practice defending
MARYLAND FEDERAL JUDGE SENTENCES MAN TO 27 MONTHS IN PRISON FOR EMBEZZLEMENT & WIRE FRAUD RELATED SCHEME
MEDITATION FOR LAWYERS: Can Meditation Offer a Meaningful Way to Help Lawyers Manage Stress & Anxiety?
MARYLAND ATTORNEY SUSPENDED INDEFINITELY FOR IMPROPERLY REVEALING CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION WHICH LED TO HIS CLIENT'S DEATH IN HOLLYWOOD STYLE MURDER-F...
TECH EXEC PLEADS GUILTY TO FEDERAL CHARGES FOR SELLING SPYWARE APP FOR JILTED LOVERS WHO SUSPECT CHEATING
OFA X-Ray in Summerville, SC | VCA Westbury Animal Hospital and Pet Care Center
VCA Westbury iss excited to offer our clients Companion Laser Therapy. Laser therapy provides a non-invasive, pain-free, surgery-free,... More
Digital x-ray equipment allows us to get x-rays fast. Digital technology lets us produce a quality x-ray image in a matter of seconds. These... More
Ultrasound provides a tool to look inside the organs and evaluate their "layers". Ultrasound lets us see things that can't... More
REACH - Research in Exercise And Cancer Health: Ep 35. Dr. Prue Cormie: ExMedCancer, A best-practice exercise medicine program for people with cancer.
In this episode, we chat about how exercise (particularly higher levels) are linked to increased survival in cancer survivors. We also chat about EX-MED Cancer, a program that Prue has rolled out in Melbourne, Australia. EX-MED is a free community based exercise program for cancer survivors that is grounded in the latest scientific evidence. EX-MED also looks to become the gold standard of education for professionals as they provide webinars and continuing education for people working in this area.
For more on EX-MED, visit http://www.exmedcancer.org.au/ and keep up with Prue on twitter @pruecormie
KLEVV CRAS C700 RGB 240GB NVMe SSD - Best Deal - South Africa
Item#: K240GM2SP0-C7R
CRAS C700 RGB provides gamers, enthusiasts and overclockers
the ideal environment with colorful RGB lighting that users can
customize themselves with sophisticated thermal control features
CRAS C700 RGB SSD is fully compatible with various RGB control
software including ASUS AURA SYNC, GIGABYTE RGB FUSION,
MSI MYSTIC LIGHT SYNC, ASROCK POLYCHROME RGB, and RAZER Chroma.
RGB Lighting Intelligent SLC
Algorithm S.M.A.R.T
Technology LDPC ECC
Engine PCIe®
Gen3x4 Interface
Express personality through RGB lighting control
CRAS C700 RGB offers a wide range of colored RGB lighting customizations to suit consumers' individual tastes
SLC Caching Algorithm for improved durability and performance
CRAS C700 RGB offers enhanced durability and performance through applying SLC (Single Level Cell) Caching Technology
Completed Stability with S.M.A.R.T
CRAS C700 RGB contains the built-in S.M.A.R.T. (Self Monitoring, Analysis and Report Technology for maximized reliability)
Stable Data Protection with LDPC ECC Engine
Used LDPC ECC Engine to achieve greater data retention and more reliable data protection than ever before
The Speed you've never Experienced
CRAS C700 RGB has gone through multiple tests so now it can read speed of up to 1,500MB/s and write speed of up to 1,300MB/s
Optimized for various PC environments
CRAS C700 RGB offers the best compatibility with Windows
with Global Wear Leveling
Used Global Wear Leveling to extend the lifespan of the device. More stable and able to use it for a longer period than before
Achieved Data Integrity through 10 – Layer PCB
CRAS C700 RGB has the best data integrity and reliability by using 10-Layer PCB
The KLEVV SSD CRAS C700 RGB offers an official software activation key for the Acronis True Image HD 2018, which provides full disk-image back up and universal restore. With the help of the Acronis True Image 2018, the KLEVV SSD CRAS C700 RGB allows users to copy the contents of an existing hard disk onto the new SSD drive quickly and easily.
Extended Life-Span with outstanding heat dissipation technique
The CRAS C700 RGB minimized the elements that interfere with the users when using the device through the aluminum alloy heat dissipation technique that has excellent thermal conductivity.
How does the timing of intubation affect clinical outcomes in critically ill patients who do not have COVID-19? A meta-analysis explore this question.
Among critically ill patients who do not have COVID-19, early intubation is associated with a lower mortality rate, according to findings and an analysis published recently in the Journal of Critical Care.
Early intubation of critically ill patients may result in airway injury, the need for sedation, and complications such as ventilator-associated pneumonia. Because of this, clinicians may favor a wait-and-see approach to intubation, said researchers conducting the current meta-analysis.
The researchers therefore sought to investigate the timing of intubation among critically ill patients and its association with clinical outcomes through a systematic review and meta-analysis. A total of 27 studies (24 observational studies, 3 randomized controlled trials; no language restrictions) from the PubMed database published through early November 2021 were reviewed. The studies included more than 15,000 critically ill patients at least 18 years of age experiencing early (n=11,943) vs late (n=3498) intubation.
“Early” intubation was specifically defined by each study. The primary endpoint was all-cause death. Statistical heterogeneity (I2 = 31%) was not important. No publication bias was found (P >.05). Notably, none of these studies involved patients with COVID-19, given that this patient population was previously analyzed and was not part of the current investigation.
The investigators found that all-cause mortality (7338 deaths) was lower in patients with early intubation vs late intubation (45.8% vs 53.5%, respectively; risk ratio [RR] 0.92; 95% CI, 0.87-0.97; P =.001), Results were similar in subgroup analysis with “early” defined as intubation within 24 hours of intensive care admission (6279 deaths; mortality from early vs late intubation 45.8% vs 53.6%, respectively; RR 0.93; 95% CI, 0.89–0.98; P =.005).
Related Content
Researchers acknowledged that the study was limited by varying definitions of “early” intubation used in the studies selected; however, they noted that findings were maintained when subgroup analysis defined “early” as within 24 hours of ICU admission.
The investigators concluded that “all-cause mortality was lower in patients undergoing early vs late intubation. This finding suggests that avoiding late intubation may be associated with lower mortality in critically ill patients without COVID-19.”
Reference
Xixi NA, Kremmydas P, Xourgia E, Giannopoulou V, Sarri K, Siempos II. Association between timing of intubation and clinical outcomes of critically ill patients: A meta-analysis. J Crit Care. Published online May 16, 2022. doi:10.1016/j.jcrc.2022.154062
Latest News Your top articles for Saturday
SIGN IN
For More Personalized News
Haymarket Medical NetworkTop Picks
Loading...
Continuing Medical Education (CME/CE) Courses
Show More
Want to read more?
Please login or register first to view this content.
Login
Register
Cookie Settings
ABOUT
ADVERTISE
CONNECT
Remarkable healthcare content
Cancer Therapy Advisor
Clinical Advisor
Clinical Pain Advisor
Dermatology Advisor
Endocrinology Advisor
Gastroenterology Advisor
Hematology Advisor
Infectious Disease Advisor
MPR
McKnight’s Home Care
McKnight’s Long-term Care
McKnight’s Senior Living
Medical Bag
Neurology Advisor
Oncology Nurse Advisor
Ophthalmology Advisor
Optometry Advisor
Psychiatry Advisor
Pulmonology Advisor
Rare Disease Advisor
Renal and Urology News
Rheumatology Advisor
The Cardiology Advisor
myCME
Copyright © 2022 Haymarket Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed in any form without prior authorization. Your use of this website constitutes acceptance of Haymarket Media’s Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
Close more info about Intubation Timing and Critical Care Outcomes in Patients Without COVID-19
Loading...
Close more info about Intubation Timing and Critical Care Outcomes in Patients Without COVID-19
Loading...
Close more info about Intubation Timing and Critical Care Outcomes in Patients Without COVID-19
Close more info about Intubation Timing and Critical Care Outcomes in Patients Without COVID-19
Loading...
Close more info about Intubation Timing and Critical Care Outcomes in Patients Without COVID-19
Loading...
Enjoying our content?
Thanks for visiting Pulmonology Advisor. We hope you’re enjoying the latest clinical news, full-length features, case studies, and more.
You’ve viewed {{metering-count}} of {{metering-total}} articles this month. If you wish to read unlimited content, please log in or register below. Registration is free.
{{login-button}} {{register-button}}
Log in to continue reading this article.
Don’t miss out on today’s top content on Pulmonology Advisor. Register for free and gain unlimited access to:
Dr Harris' Snore formula - Natural Wellness Corner
Home / Sleep / Dr Harris' Snore formula
Dr Harris' Snore formula
Snoring is a condition that is associated with serious and potentially life-threatening medical problems. Snorers have a much higher risk of heart attacks, high blood pressure, and strokes.
WHY TAKE Dr Harris' Snore formula:
Snoring produces sleep disturbances in the person snoring and their mate. Snoring also leads to serious social problems and broken relationships. Causes of Snoring Most cases of snoring are due to the nightly accumulation of secretions in the back of the throat and the associated tissue swelling.
These factors produce a partial airflow obstruction and narrowed airway, allowing vibration of the soft tissues in the throat. How Dr. Harris' Original Snore Formula™ Works The unique combination of natural enzymes metabolizes the secretions, allowing the body to absorb them.
The herbs reduce the tissue swelling and inflammation. The result is to open the airway, smooth out the airflow and eliminate the snoring. About Dr. Harris' Original Snore Formula™ Dr. Harris tested this preparation on 220 subjects. Amazingly, 86% of those using this formulation had good to excellent results.
Good Housekeeping magazine also performed an independent study that demonstrated a significant improvement in the majority of users. Over 250,000 people in North America have used this product over the past 36 months
ARS | Publication request: Effects of pre-shipping management on measures of stress and performance of beef steers during a feedlot receiving period ARS : Research
/ Publication #218080 Related Topics
Programs and Projects Subjects of Investigation ARS National Programs Search for a research project ARS Office of International Research Programs ARS Office of International Research Programs Regional Contacts ARS Food Security Research ARS International Research Partnerships ARS Biosecurity Engagement Research Title: Effects of pre-shipping management on measures of stress and performance of beef steers during a feedlot receiving period
Authors Arthington, J - UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA Qiu, X - UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA Cooke, R - UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA Vendramini, J - UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA Araujo, D - UNIVERSITY OF FLORIDA Chase, Chadwick
http://jas.fass.org/cgi/reprint/86/8/2016.pdf
Citation: Arthington, J.D., Qiu, X., Cooke, R.F., Vendramini, J.M., Araujo, D.B., Chase, C.C., Coleman, S.W. 2008. Effects of pre-shipping management on measures of stress and performance of beef steers during a feedlot receiving period. Journal of Animal Science. 86:2016-2023. Interpretive Summary: Three of the most stressful events encountered by a feeder calf are weaning, transportation, and entry into the feedlot. Stressors associated with weaning and shipping are key factors affecting subsequent calf health and performance. Previous research efforts on early weaning calves have reported improved feedlot performance. This response appears to be related, at least in part, to reduced plasma concentrations of acute phase proteins. This study was conducted to evaluate the effects of four pre-weaning management systems on subsequent performance during the first 30 days in the feedlot. Steers were allocated to one of four treatments: 1) control – weaned on the day of shipping; 2) creep fed – allowed free choice access to concentrate prior to weaning and shipping; 3) pre-weaned – weaned and provided supplemental concentrate on pasture prior to shipping; and 4) early weaned – weaned at 70 to 90 days of age and kept on pasture. On the day of shipping, steers were loaded onto a commercial livestock trailer and transported 1,600 km over 24 hours. During the first 30 days at the feedlot, average daily gain and feed intake and efficiency were greater for early weaned compared to control steers. Average feed intake was greater for pre-weaned compared to creep fed, but feed efficiency was similar. Acute phase protein profiles after shipment indicated that haptoglobin concentrations were higher in creep fed than pre-weaned steers. Ceruloplasmin concentrations after shipment were higher in control than early-weaned steers, and at times were higher in creep fed steers than pre-weaned steers. Results suggest that early weaned steers have a productivity advantage over those weaned and shipped on the same day (control). The acute phase protein response is affected by pre-weaning management system.
Over two 2 yr, a total of 96 steers (approx. 7 mo of age) were allocated 1 to 4 weaning management strategies: 1) control: weaned on the day of shipping; 2) creep-fed: allowed free-choice access to concentrate prior to weaning and shipping; 3) pre-weaned: weaned and provided supplemental concentrate on pasture prior to shipping; and 4) early-weaned: weaned at 70 to 90 d of age and kept on pasture. On the day of shipping steers were loaded together onto a commercial livestock trailer and transported 1,600 km over 24 h before being received into the feedlot. At the feedlot, steers were penned by treatment (4 pens/treatment) and provided access to free-choice hay and concentrate in separate feeding spaces. Samples of blood were collected on d 0, 1, 4, 8, 15, 22, and 29 relative to shipping. Steer performance was assessed over the receiving period, including percent transport shrink, DMI of hay and concentrate, ADG, and G:F. Pre-determined contrasts included: control vs. early-weaned, creep-fed vs. pre-weaned, and control vs. creep-fed and pre-weaned. Overall ADG was greater (P<0.01) for early weaned vs. control steers. In wk 1, early-weaned steers consumed more concentrate and less hay compared to control steers (P < 0.01) and pre-weaned steers consumed more concentrate (P < 0.01), but a similar amount of hay (P = 0.59) compared to creep-fed steers. Average DMI intake was greatest for early-weaned compared to control (P = 0.01), and pre-weaned compared to creep-fed steers (P < 0.01). Feed efficiency of early-weaned steers was greater than control (P < 0.01), but similar for pre-weaned compared to creep-fed steers (P = 0.68). Haptoglobin concentrations were less in creep-fed vs. pre-weaned steers on d 0 (P < 0.05), but increased sharply after shipping and were greater than pre-weaned steers on d 1 and 4 (P < 0.05). In Yr. 1, control steers experienced a sharp increase in ceruloplasmin concentrations, resulting in concentrations greater (P < 0.05) than early-weaned steers on d 15, 22, and 29. Creep-fed steers also experienced greater (P < 0.05) ceruloplasmin concentrations than pre-weaned steers on d 29 (Yr. 1) and d 4 (Yr. 2). These data suggest that early-weaned steers have improved performance in the receiving yard compared to steers weaned directly prior to transport and feedlot entry. Differences in pre-shipping management appear to significantly impact measures of the acute phase protein response in steers.
Ginkgo tea has miraculous effects for essential hypertension - Everyteas
Ginkgo tea has miraculous effects for essential hypertension
"Chinese Medicine History" records that ginkgo tea can "contain lung qi, relieve asthma and cough, and stop turbidity." Ginkgo biloba has a wide range of effects on humans and animals, such as improving cardiovascular and peripheral vascular circulation, improving myocardial ischemia, promoting memory and improving brain function.
In addition, it can reduce blood viscosity and scavenge free radicals. Pick fresh ginkgo biloba leaves, wash, dry steam, dry, 6-9 grams a day, substitute for tea. It can treat essential hypertension with good curative effect. It is introduced as follows.
Ginkgo biloba instead of tea was used to actively intervene and adjust, and a good therapeutic effect was obtained. Ginkgo biloba leaves are sweet, bitter, astringent and smooth in nature, and return to the heart and lung meridian. The extract contains flavonoids and platelet activating factor antagonists and other active ingredients. Flavonoids can remove blood stasis, promote blood circulation, and improve the function of heart, brain, and arteries; platelet activating factor antagonists inhibit platelet activation and protect vascular endothelium.
It can be seen that Ginkgo biloba has the function of repairing arterial elasticity. This method is widely used, simple and convenient to take, long-term use, no obvious side effects; stable blood pressure reduction, good long-term effect; improve vascular endothelial function and arterial compliance, while controlling cardiovascular risk factors, protecting organs, reducing vascular inflammation, and preventing Reverse atherosclerosis. Ginkgo biloba is effective in the early prevention and treatment of hypertension.
