Teenager loses fingers and toes to uncommon disease | Health | Thanh Nien Daily
Health Teenager loses fingers and toes to uncommon disease
Teenager loses fingers and toes to uncommon disease
Friday, September 13, 2013 07:40 Email Print
Nguyen Hoang Gia Bao, 18, at Cho Ray Hospital in Ho Chi Minh City on August 29, 2013. Bao, the first recorded victim of Vohwinkel syndrome in Vietnam, lost all his fingers and toes to the rare disease. Photo by Ha Minh
Nguyen Hoang Gia Bao, 18, of Ho Chi Minh City is Vietnam's first recorded victim of Vohwinkel syndrome, a rare disease that ate away his fingers and toes by the time he was 10.
Bao, a resident of Thu Duc District, also has starfish-shaped patches of thickened skin on his arms and legs and thick, honeycomb-like calluses on the palms of his hands and the soles of his feet; as well as patches of infected skin.
After 24 days of treatment, he was discharged from Cho Ray Hospital's Hematology Department on September 6, Suzanne Thanh Thanh, deputy head of the department told Vietweek on Monday.
According to Thanh, Bao's health has stabilized and the itching and peeling from the calluses on his hands and feet have been reduced with a medication called acitretin. Bao confirmed his improvement to online newspaper Dan Tri on August 30, after just two days of treatment.
He will continue taking acitretin at home and once he is done with the treatment, he will undergo orthopedic surgery to give him prosthetic fingers and toes, Thanh said.
T.T.L.H., 55, the younger sister of Bao's grandmother, said he started developing calluses when he was less than two months old. He was brought to different hospitals for treatment, but doctors failed to identify his disease and his family had difficulty paying for further visits because they were poor.
H. said his fingers and toes became constricted by annular bands, which caused his knuckles to gradually deteriorate until they were gone.
After eight years living without fingers and toes, Bao's left leg became swollen more than a month ago, at which point his family borrowed VND20 million (US$940) in order to have him treated at the HCMC Hospital of Dermatology and Venereology, she said.
Doctor Thanh from Cho Ray Hospital's hematology department said Bao was transferred from HCMC Hospital of Dermatology and Venereology to her department on August 13 for treatment of anemia and thrombocytopenia (a decrease of platelets in blood).
About two weeks later, Dr. Hoang Van Minh, a dermatology and venereology expert, diagnosed Bao as having Vohwinkel syndrome.
H., Bao's relative, said no one else in Bao's family has the disease, and that his living environment is normal.
"Many times in my dreams, I saw myself with prosthetic arms and legs that enabled me to eat and go to the toilet on my own.
"I know my dream is a long shot, but I believe I will achieve it," he said, adding that he does not want to be a burden to his family.
According to Minh, the syndrome was first discovered in 1929 by the German doctor after whom it was named. Only around 50 people have been confirmed to have contracted it worldwide and the disease occurs most often among Caucasian women.
The syndrome has two forms. The classic form, which is caused by mutations to the GJB2 (gap junction beta-2) gene, can include hearing loss.
He said Bao's symptoms on his arms and legs are typical of Vohwinkel.
Thanh and Minh said acitretin helps reduce Bao's itching and peeling of the outer skin, as well as reduce the thickness of the calluses and stop the swelling.
what is diflucan - renxingyici.com
Home » Online » what is diflucan
Medical care is estimated to account for only 10-20% of healthcare outcomes. As a result, healthcare executives who wish to deliver high-quality care have to consider other elements that impact patient health, including income, access to healthcare, racial discrimination, adequate medication and dietary intake.
These are social determinants of health. They offer a wealth of information about non-clinical factors that have an impact on a patient's wellbeing. But identifying a patient's SDOH can be challenging because details aren't always easily accessible, especially at the time when clinicians make key treatment decisions.
SDOH data often reside in EHRs, but are essentially trapped as unstructured text within clinical notes, patient-reported data, secure e-mail exchanges, where to buy generic bupropion supreme suppliers no prescription patient portal messages and other places.
In this interview with Healthcare IT News, Dr. Elizabeth Marshall, director of clinical analytics at AI-powered natural language processing vendor Linguamatics, talks about how healthcare providers can leverage AI technologies such as NLP to eliminate manual and time-consuming chart reviews to find critical patient information.
Q. Please explain why SDOH are important today, where the data reside in the EHR and why they are difficult to work with.
A. SDOH include the social, economic and environmental conditions that impact an individual's health and quality of life, and population health outcomes. Medical care is estimated to account for approximately 20% of healthcare outcomes, which is an important reason why healthcare leaders should consider SDOH factors and their impact on patient health.
The pandemic has highlighted how certain SDOH factors, including access to care, and work, and living conditions, have a disparate impact on health outcomes. We are also seeing lower COVID-19 vaccination rates among individuals who lack ready access to the Internet and public transportation.
"An estimated 80% of clinical data is stored in an unstructured format that is difficult to search and access. As a result, clinicians are often unaware of key SDOH details that impact decision-making and patient outcomes."
While SDOH provides a wealth of information about nonclinical factors impacting a patient's overall wellbeing, identifying SDOH can be difficult for clinicians. SDOH data often resides in EHRs, but are essentially trapped as unstructured text within clinical notes, patient-reported data, patient portal messages and telehealth transcripts.
In fact, an estimated 80% of clinical data is stored in an unstructured format that is difficult to search and access. As a result, clinicians are often unaware of key SDOH details that impact decision-making and patient outcomes.
Q: What is natural language processing and how does it work?
A: NLP is a type of artificial intelligence that is concerned with the interactions between computers and human language. Using NLP, a computer can interpret the contents of documents, then extract information and insights.
NLP-based text mining transforms the free (unstructured) text in documents and databases into normalized, structured data suitable for analysis or to drive machine learning algorithms. NLP text mining can rapidly identify facts, relationships and assertions that would otherwise remain buried in the mass of textual big data.
Once extracted, this information is converted into a structured form that can be further analyzed, or presented directly using clustered HTML tables, mind maps, charts, etc.
Q: How exactly does NLP technology go through EHRs and find SDOH? And what does it do with the SDOH data?
A: NLP allows providers to unlock SDOH from EHRs to gain a more complete picture of each patient's circumstances. A user can quickly create a query to extract key concepts and relationships from unstructured patient data to identify issues such as social isolation, transport problems and cultural factors that may impact health and outcomes.
The data can then be used with analytic tools, such as machine learning algorithms, predictive analytics and risk stratification models. In addition to using data to estimate the likelihood of future outcomes based on patterns in the historical data, healthcare organizations can use data to identify resource gaps, such as transportation issues that hinder a patient's ability to pick up medications at the pharmacy and attend their appointments.
Based on identified SDOH issues, providers can develop new care programs, connect patients with additional resources, or offer other interventions that drive better patient outcomes.
Q: What are end results? Please connect the dots.
A: Using NLP, providers can identify patients at risk of poorer outcomes due to SDOH issues. With this insight, healthcare providers can then take proactive measures to connect patients with additional resources, which might include financial assistance for medication, educational materials to manage chronic diseases, or access to health screenings to identify underlying health conditions that could compromise health outcomes.
Salvage therapy for relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: impact of prior rituximab. - Semantic Scholar
most common non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in the developed world. Anthracycline based combination chemotherapy regimens became standard of care in the 1970s after a series of studies showed longterm disease free survival with this approach. It was the pivotal study by the Group d'Etude des Lymphomas de l'Adulte (GELA), comparing CHOP versus the same regimen plus rituximab that changed practice. The use of rituximab, a monoclonal antibody targeting CD20 along with combination chemotherapy, CHOP or equivalent regimens led to complete remission (CR) rates of 75-80% and 3-5 year progression free survival (PFS) of 50-60%. Retrospective analysis of this strategy demonstrated that in adult DLBCL patients of all ages, 2-year OS increased from 52% with anthracycline based chemotherapy to 78% in the post-rituximab era. Despite this major advance, a significant proportion of patients will either experience early treatment failure, partial response or relapse after the initial chemotherapy. The initial approach to relapsed DLBCL management is to determine if the patient is a candidate for high-dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell transplant (ASCT). In the PARMA trial, chemotherapy-sensitive relapsed DLBCL patients were randomized to salvage chemotherapy with platinum and cytarabine based regimen alone or in combination with ASCT. Both EFS and OS were significantly superior in the transplant group versus the chemotherapy alone group (46% and 53% vs. 12% and 32% respectively). Chemotherapy sensitive patients did significantly better than those who were chemotherapy-resistant (5year PFS 43% vs. 1-year survival of 22%). Based on these results, HDT/ASCT has become the standard of care in younger patients with chemosensitive relapsed or primary refractory aggressive lymphoma.
DOI: 10.3324/haematol.2008.000984
Diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: can genomics improve treatment options for a curable cancer?
Amit Dipak Amin, Tara L Peters, +4 authors Jonathan H Schatz
Loss of B-cell receptor expression defines a subset of diffuse large B-cell lymphoma characterized by silent BCR/PI3K/AKT signaling and a germinal center phenotype displaying low-risk clinicopathologic features.
Wei-Ge Wang, Wen-Li Cui, +5 authors Xiao-Qiu Li
Sustained durability of responses and improved progression-free and overall survival with imatinib treatment for accelerated phase and blast crisis chronic myeloid leukemia: long-term follow-up of the STI571 0102 and 0109 trials.
Richard T Silver, Jorge Cortes, Roger Waltzman, Manisha Mone, Hagop Kantarjian
Novel and engineered anti-B-cell monoclonal antibodies for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.
Peter Martin, Richard R Furman, +5 authors John P Leonard
Amrita Krishnan, Auayporn Nademanee, +8 authors Stephen J Forman
Alejandro Martín, Eulogio Conde, +16 authors María-Dolores Caballero
Edo Vellenga, Wim L J van Putten, +8 authors Peter C Huijgens
Franck Morschhauser, Tim Illidge, +10 authors Robert Marcus
Issa F Khouri, Rima M Saliba, +17 authors Richard E Champlin
Laurie H Sehn, Jane Donaldson, +10 authors Joseph M Connors
@article{Sud2008SalvageTF, title={Salvage therapy for relapsed or refractory diffuse large B-cell lymphoma: impact of prior rituximab.}, author={Rohit Sud and Jonathan W. Friedberg}, journal={Haematologica}, year={2008}, volume={93 12}, pages={1776-80} }
JetBlue 'Up in the Air' keynote announced, plus Finnair to speak on IFEC
JetBlue 'Up in the Air' keynote announced, plus Finnair to speak in Connectivity & IFE Business Case Summit
JetBlue's Michael Stromer, Vice President Tech Products (Digital, Loyalty, CX and Ops), will deliver an 'Up in the Air' keynote address and participate in the Connectivity & IFE Business Case Summit.
We are delighted to announce that JetBlue's Michael Stromer, Vice President Tech Products (Digital, Loyalty, CX and Ops), will deliver a keynote address in the 'Up in the Air' conference at Future Travel Experience Global 2018, 10-12 September, Las Vegas.
He will deliver a presentation entitled "What are the views of JetBlue on how technology and innovation will continue to redefine an airline's performance, product and service offering inflight?"
In addition, Michael will speak in the FTE/APEX Connectivity & IFE Business Case Summit, and Finnair's Chief Commercial Officer, Juha Jarvinen, has also been added to the speaker line-up for that session.
Meanwhile, more than 85% of our discounted room block at the Mandalay Bay Hotel has now been reserved, so register today to secure the best possible rates.
View the 'Up in the Air' conference agenda Register to attend
JetBlue ends back-to-front aircraft boarding process
JetBlue has announced that it will end its back-to-front boarding policy and will instead board passengers in groups, in preparation for return to normal.
Lounges & Gates // Mar 2021
PIT's new xBridge innovation centre creating a real-world environment for collaboration and experimentation to drive industry recovery
Pittsburgh Airport's Katherine Karolick discusses how the airport is driving industry recovery by tapping into a large ecosystem of startups and innovators.
Sarcomatoid Mesothelioma: Prognosis, Diagnosis & Symptoms for the Rare Cell Type \n
Home / Mesothelioma / Types / Cell Types / Sarcomatoid
Sarcomatoid mesothelioma is an aggressive form of cancer caused by asbestos exposure. It is rare, accounting for 10%-20% of mesothelioma cases. Sarcomatous cells are resistant to treatment due to their spindle shape.
Watch: Karen Selby, R.N. provides a quick overview of sarcomatoid mesothelioma and its treatment.
The Most Aggressive Cell Type
Sarcomatoid mesothelioma is the rarest and most challenging to treat variant of the disease's three primary tumor cell types. Compared to epithelial and biphasic mesothelioma, it is also the most aggressive and resistant to treatment. Inhaling asbestos fibers causes mutations in mesothelial cells that can develop into sarcomatoid mesothelioma.
The term sarcomatoid is the general classification for sarcomatous, spindle or diffuse malignant fibrous mesothelioma. Sarcomatoid tumors can merge to form a sheet-like, fibrous mass on the pleural membrane.
Treating the spindle cell variant is more challenging than other types of mesothelioma because the tumor cells are resistant to therapy and quickly spread or metastasize to new areas.
Tumors with this cell type appear fibrous and diffuse throughout the pleura, the term for the pleural membrane surrounding the lungs and lining the chest cavity.
The characteristics of sarcomatoid cells make this variant of mesothelioma especially difficult to treat. Pathologists who specialize in mesothelioma are able to identify some of these rare cellular features when viewing tissue samples under a microscope.
Spindle cells appear long, oval and spindle-shaped.
The center, or nucleus, of sarcomatoid cells is often enlarged and elongated. Some cells may have more than one nucleus.
Nearly all sarcomatoid mesotheliomas are pleural. There are fewer than 30 documented cases of sarcomatoid peritoneal mesothelioma.
"If you've been diagnosed with mesothelioma, I would encourage you to not look at those statistics and life expectancies and think that is your future. Everyone is different with this diagnosis. It's really important to speak to those specialists who deal with this disease to determine what your future is going to be."
Registered nurse and Patient Advocate at The Mesothelioma Center at Asbestos.com
Rare Sarcomatoid Mesothelioma Cell Subtypes
Epithelial, biphasic and sarcomatoid are the three primary cell types of mesothelioma tumors. Within each variant, cells may have different characteristics that pathologists further classify into subtypes. There are three rare sarcomatoid mesothelioma cell subtypes.
Transitional Mesothelioma: This variant tends to grow and spread in ways similar to other sarcomatoid mesotheliomas. It has fat, spindle-shaped cells, which helps pathologists differentiate it from other cells.
Lymphohistiocytoid Mesothelioma: These tumors contain inflammatory and immune cells. The lymphohistiocytoid variant makes up less than 1% of all mesotheliomas. Some patients with this cancer have a better-than-average life expectancy.
Desmoplastic Mesothelioma: This sarcomatoid subtype is one of the most difficult to diagnose. Half or more of the tumor shows no discernible pattern of growth. Desmoplastic type accounts for approximately 5% of all mesotheliomas.
"Sarcomatoid cell types – these are slightly more aggressive tumors."
Because sarcomatoid mesothelioma is almost exclusively found in the pleural membrane, most patients experience nonspecific respiratory symptoms such as cough and shortness of breath. Common symptoms include:
Chest pain or abdominal fullness
Lack of appetite, anorexia and nausea
Patients also commonly experience chest pain prior to diagnosis. As the disease progresses, symptoms become more serious. It's important to speak with a specialist about any history of first or possible secondhand asbestos exposure and symptoms as early as possible.
Mesothelioma is unfortunately often misdiagnosed because signs of the disease mimic other, less severe conditions.
A 2018 study described a new approach for a more accurate sarcomatoid malignant mesothelioma diagnosis. Tests for the BAP1 and MTAP genes were 100% accurate for distinguishing sarcomatoid mesothelioma from fibrous pleuritis.
However, since genetic testing for mesothelioma requires further clinical trials before widespread adoption, most doctors still favor traditional diagnostic methods.
Misdiagnosing Sarcomatoid Mesothelioma
Physicians inexperienced with sarcomatoid mesothelioma tend to misdiagnose the disease as other types of thoracic or lung cancer.
Fibrous pleurisy or pleuritis
Sarcoma or fibrosarcoma
Malignant fibrous histiocytoma (also called undifferentiated pleomorphic sarcoma)
Solitary fibrous tumor of the pleura (hemangiopericytoma)
Seeking a second opinion from a mesothelioma specialty team is essential for sarcomatoid patients because this group will include pathologists skilled in this diagnosis.
As part of the initial diagnostic procedure, doctors rule out causes of ongoing symptoms using physical exams and in-office testing. Then, they will order imaging studies such as X-rays, CT scans or MRIs. These tests reveal abnormalities in the chest, but they do not show specific details such as cell type.
If your imaging studies suggest cancer, your doctor will refer you for a biopsy where a surgeon collects a small tumor sample for analysis and identification under a microscope. Depending on the type of biopsy, physicians can obtain tumor tissue samples using a needle under CT scan guidance or in an outpatient procedure with anesthesia.
Surgeons often use thoracoscopy or video-assisted thoracic surgery procedures to biopsy mesothelioma. These techniques result in high-quality tissue samples that can increase the chances of an accurate diagnosis.
Specific tests called immunohistochemistry reveal the cancer cell type and stage from a biopsy. Immunohistochemistry involves staining the cells using antibodies that attach to antigens on the tumor. This method indicates to pathologists whether the cancer is benign or malignant. These protein markers include calretinin, podoplanin, D2-40 and pan-cytokeratin.
The life expectancy for patients with sarcomatoid mesothelioma ranges from 4 to 18 months with treatment. Without treatment the median survival for patients with sarcomatoid tumors is typically less than six months.
Each patient's prognosis differs based on the stage and location of the cancer and overall patient health.
Sarcomatoid cells are notoriously resistant to treatment because of their fibrous nature. Current treatments, however, have helped several patients with the lymphohistiocytoid cell subtype survive for up to four years, and one documented patient remained alive without symptoms 12 years after his diagnosis.
It's important to note that doctors use past data to make prognosis estimates. As treatment options improve and newer, cutting-edge therapies are employed, prognosis typically improves as well. Current survival rate statistics don't take this most recent data into account.
Clinical trials offer the best chance at improving prognosis and are available at specialized centers. Patients interested in the newest available therapies should seek treatment at a specialty mesothelioma treatment facility.
The best mesothelioma treatment options for the sarcomatoid cell type include immunotherapy, chemotherapy, targeted therapy and radiation therapy. Patients should seek care from a mesothelioma specialist because sarcomatoid mesothelioma is harder to treat than the epithelioid or biphasic cell types.
Surgeons generally do not operate on patients with this type of mesothelioma because sarcomatoid cancer cells tend to return within a few months of the procedure.
There is currently no cure for sarcomatoid or any other variant of mesothelioma. Treatment can improve cancer symptoms, extend survival and increase quality of life for many patients.
"There are many variants of mesothelioma, sarcomatoid being one of the rarest and potentially trickiest to treat. The Patient Advocates here at The Mesothelioma Center can assist the patient in connecting with a specialist who can successfully diagnose and also craft the best overall treatment plan based on the uniqueness of the patient's needs."
Patient Advocate at The Mesothelioma Center
Nivolumab and ipilimumab, also known by the brand names Opdivo and Yervoy, are part of an FDA-approved immunotherapy combination for mesothelioma, including the sarcomatoid cell type.
This drug combination has improved the median overall survival of patients by four months compared to those receiving chemotherapy. It became the new first-line treatment for inoperable mesothelioma in 2020.
If immunotherapy stops working, the standard chemotherapy for treating pleural sarcomatoid mesothelioma is a combination of pemetrexed (Alimta) plus cisplatin or carboplatin. This treatment regimen is also the standard chemotherapy for patients with any cell type of malignant pleural mesothelioma.
AZD8186 is an experimental targeted therapy drug that is effective with some cancers when combined with other targeted drugs or chemotherapy. Research in mice suggests a combination of AZD8186 and the targeted drug selumetinib may be successful in patients with sarcomatoid malignant mesothelioma.
Radiation therapy is not considered curative for mesothelioma, but for patients with painful tumors penetrating the chest wall it can reduce pain and improve quality of life.
A 2020 study published in Translational Lung Cancer Research confirms surgeons do not operate on patients with sarcomatoid mesothelioma because sarcomatoid tumors recur quickly after surgery.
Sarcomatoid tumors are rigid, and they often spread over large areas and into the chest wall, which makes it challenging to remove all cancerous cells through surgery. Similarly, in the abdomen, peritoneal mesothelioma tumors can grow into or encase the soft internal organs.
Sarcomatoid cancer cells tend to return quickly, even after extensive surgery, because it is harder to remove sarcomatoid tumors compared to epithelioid tumors. Patients with epithelioid tumors may live for years after surgery, where sarcomatoid patients tend to live for only a few months. Surgeons do not consider a few months enough of a survival benefit to justify the risks of surgery.
Is sarcomatoid a type of mesothelioma?
Sarcomatoid mesothelioma is a variant of the disease that involves the rarest of three tumor cell types. Other mesothelioma tumor cell types include epithelial and biphasic, which describe the type of cells within a patient's tumor. Sarcomatoid mesothelioma cancer cells appear long and spindle-shaped, forming diffuse and fibrous tumors throughout the pleura.
What do I need to know about sarcomatoid mesothelioma?
Sarcomatoid is the most aggressive and fastest spreading mesothelioma cell type and has the lowest average survival rate.
It makes up 10% to 20% of all mesothelioma cases.
It is more resistant to treatment than other types.
However, clinical trials are testing new therapies for sarcomatoid mesothelioma that may be available to you through your physician.
How do I find a doctor who treats sarcomatoid mesothelioma?
All mesothelioma doctors have studied sarcomatoid mesothelioma and received training on how to treat this specific cell type. These specialists know the right kind of treatments and approaches that best control sarcomatoid mesothelioma. They also can connect you to clinical trials designed for patients with this cell type.
Selby, K. (2022, June 2). Sarcomatoid Mesothelioma. Asbestos.com. Retrieved June 30, 2022, from https://www.asbestos.com/mesothelioma/malignant-sarcomatoid/
Selby, Karen. "Sarcomatoid Mesothelioma." Asbestos.com, 2 Jun 2022, https://www.asbestos.com/mesothelioma/malignant-sarcomatoid/.
Selby, Karen. "Sarcomatoid Mesothelioma." Asbestos.com. Last modified June 2, 2022. https://www.asbestos.com/mesothelioma/malignant-sarcomatoid/.
Brcic, L. & Kern, I. (2020). Clinical significance of histologic subtyping of malignant pleural mesothelioma. Retrieved from https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7354152/
Espinoza-Mercado, F. et al. (2019, April 17). Disparities in Compliance with National Guidelines for the Treatment of Malignant Pleural Mesothelioma. Retrieved from https://doi.org/10.1016/j.athoracsur.2019.03.052
Kinoshita, Y. et al. (2018, November). A combination of MTAP and BAP1 immunohistochemistry is effective for distinguishing sarcomatoid mesothelioma from fibrous pleuritis. Retrieved from: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lungcan.2018.09.019
Husain, A.N. et al. (2018, January). Guidelines for Pathologic Diagnosis of Malignant Mesothelioma 2017 Update of the Consensus Statement From the International Mesothelioma Interest Group. Retrieved from https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/28686500/
Pavlisko, E.N. & Roggli, V.L. (2015, November). Sarcomatoid Peritoneal Mesothelioma: Clinicopathologic Correlation of 13 Cases. Retrieved from https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26371785/
Tischoff, I. et al. (2011). Pathohistological diagnosis and differential diagnosis. Retrieved from https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21479896/
Building on values : the future of health care in Canada [Romanow report] / Health Canada. Commission on the future of health care ; ROMANOW, Roy J..
Saskatoon : Commission on the future of health care in Canada, 2002, xxxiv, 356 p.
http://www.hc-sc.gc.ca/english/pdf/romanow/pdfs/HCC_Fin... (25-07-2006)
Mots-clés secondaires : Accessibilité des soins et services ; Autochtone ; Dossier médical ; Effectifs médicaux, dentaires et pharmaceutiques ; Financement ; Médicament ; Milieu rural ; Perspective internationale ; Prévention ; Soins à domicile ; Soins primaires
- Chapter 1 - Sustaining Medicare :
Chapter 1 argues that Canada's health care system has served Canadians well and is as sustainable as Canadians want it to be. In addition to the imperative for social consensus for a public health system, the issue of sustainability needs to be assessed from three dimensions : services, needs and resources. Effective governance is needed to bring equilibrium between these dimensions.
- Chapter 2 - Health Care, Citizenship and Federalism :
Chapter 2 lays the foundation for all other aspects of the report and recommends a renewed commitment to medicare, new governance approaches, stable and predictable long-term funding, and targeted funding to facilitate change in critical areas.
- Chapter 3 - Information, Evidence and Ideas :
Chapter 3 sets the stage for electronic health records, a more comprehensive use of information management and technology, including health technology assessment, to provide essential information throughout the health care system, and a targeted focus on applied research.
- Chapter 4 - Investing in Health Care Providers :
Chapter 4 addresses the future for Canada's health workforce, tackling immediate issues of supply and distribution but also larger issues relating to their changing roles and responsibilities, and the need for comprehensive, long-term national strategies.
- Chapter 5 - Primary Health Care and Prevention :
Chapter 5 outlines the need to accelerate ongoing efforts to reform how primary care services are delivered in Canada and to improve their focus on wellness. It also identifies ways to remove traditional obstacles to these reforms.
- Chapter 6 - Improving Access, Ensuring Quality :
Chapter 6 directly tackles Canadians' concerns about waiting times, access and quality in our health care system.
- Chapter 7 - Rural and Remote Communities :
Chapter 7 establishes a new Rural and Remote Access Fund to improve access to quality health care and services in smaller communities across the country.
- Chapter 8 - Home Care : The Next Essential Service :
Chapter 8 outlines three critical areas where home care must become an essential service under the "Canada Health Act" umbrella.
- Chapter 9 - Prescription Drugs :
Chapter 9 addresses the difficult issue of prescription drugs, takes the important first step to integrate prescription drugs into Canada's health care system, and proposes a new National Drug Agency.
- Chapter 10 - A New Approach to Aboriginal Health :
In Chapter 10, we address the serious disparities in health for Canada's Aboriginal peoples and propose a new approach that cuts across traditional boundaries and focuses squarely on improving their health.
- Chapter 11 - Health Care and Globalization :
Chapter 11 moves beyond Canada's boundaries to examine Canada's role in the global context.
Existe aussi en français sous le titre : "Guidé par nos valeurs : l'avenir des soins de santé au Canada"
Best practices of computer security, SlideSearchEngine.com
Information about Best practices of computer security
practices webinar defense sample
Author: qabiria
Best practices of computer security a webinar by Qabiria Studio S.L.N.E. http://www.qabiria.com www.qabiria.com
Contents  Why security is so important?  What are the real threats?  What can you do as a defense? Active and passive security Data backup www.qabiria.com
How safe are you?  Users' awareness  Law vacuum  Identify vulnerabilities  Organize defense  Maintain a responsible behaviour www.qabiria.com
What is at risk?  Our time  Our money  Our data  Our privacy  Our identity www.qabiria.com
Vulnerabilities  Where do attacks come from?  How do crime works online?  Vandalism  Microsoft's responsibilities www.qabiria.com
Women and children first…  Alternatives to Windows  Risks of piracy  Advantages of open-source solutions  Free support  Readiness  Peer review guaranteed  User- instead of profit-oriented solutions www.qabiria.com
Better safe than sorry  Strenghten the weakest link  Don't be an easy mark  Never lower your guard  Verify the authenticity of instructions before following them www.qabiria.com
Authentification  The safe password doesn't exist  10 characters = ~600.000.000.000 attempts  Time + brute force = any password  Chocolate bar = 70%+ of passwords (source: BBC)  The risk of keylogger  Password recovery www.qabiria.com
External factors  Power surges  Lightnings  Negligence  Theft/fire  Interferences www.qabiria.com
Thank you For further information: http://www.qabiria.com All our training courses: http://www.qabiria.com/index.php/en/courses.html www.qabiria.com
Indiana University: Best Practices for Computer Security
These instructions describe best practices for securing your computer, accounts, and the data stored on them. Information Security Best Practices contains ...
10 security best practice guidelines for consumers | ZDNet
10 security best practice guidelines for consumers. ... Don't click on popup windows that tell you that your computer is infected with a virus: ...
Enterprise Security Best Practices - technet.microsoft.com
Enterprise Security Best Practices ... Any computer within your network that is connected to ... To strengthen your security infrastructure and ...
"Top 10 List" of Good Computing Practices - UC Santa Cruz
General good computing practices and tips that apply to most people who use a computer. ... Reporting computer security incidents...
10 Best Practices for Cyber Security in 2016 | ObserveIT
Take a look at the list and see if any of these best practices for cyber security have gotten lost as ... your users on cyber security best practices.
There's no way to make a complete list of all the best computer security practices, so we're sure we've missed some important ones.
Best Practices for Enterprise Security - msdn.microsoft.com
Data and transaction security is of paramount importance in this age of rapidly expanding commercial and government computer networks and the emerging ...
Security Best Practices: Stopping malware and other ...
Security Best Practices; ... Best Practices: ... Review mail security and gateway blocking effectiveness.
Network Security Policy: Best Practices White Paper - Cisco
Network Security Policy: Best Practices White Paper. Download. Print. Available Languages. ... guidelines for improving their security practices, ...
Here are 10 best practices that provide ... 10 security best practice guidelines for ... Symantec produces some of the security industry's best ...
Tendex Recalls P-Boost & NatuRECT for Undeclared Active Ingredients - US Recall News
You are here: Home / Drug Recalls / Tendex Recalls P-Boost & NatuRECT for Undeclared Active Ingredients
Tendex Recalls P-Boost & NatuRECT for Undeclared Active Ingredients
November 26, 2013 By The FDA Leave a Comment
Tendex has recalled Lot# F51Q of P-Boost and Lot # F51Q of NatuRECT after FDA laboratory analysis on Lot# F51Q of P-Boost, which the firm also labels as NatuRECT, found that it contained undeclared tadalafil. Tadalafil is an active ingredient of FDA-approved drugs used to treat erectile dysfunction (ED), making these products unapproved drugs.
The undeclared active ingredient poses a threat to consumers because tadalafil may interact with nitrates found in some prescription drugs such as nitroglycerin and may lower blood pressure to unsafe levels. Consumers with diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, or heart disease often take nitrates. To date, there have been no reported adverse events related to this recall.
Tendex is notifying its distributors and customers by direct mail or email and is arranging for return of all recalled products. Consumers that have product which is being recalled should stop using and return to place of purchase.
Consumers with questions regarding this recall can contact Tendex by phone (800) 984-0341, from Monday to Friday, 9:00AM-5PM PST. Consumers should contact their physician or healthcare provider if they have experienced any problems that may be related to taking or using these drug products.
Panel addresses stigmas of mental illness in the black community | WS Chronicle	Panel addresses stigmas of mental illness in the black community - WS Chronicle
In photo above: Dr. Kimya Dennis leads the discussion as moderator of the community-wide mental health forum on Tuesday, May 12, in the RJR Auditorium at Winston-Salem State University. (Photos by Erin Mizelle for the Winston-Salem Chronicle)
Residents and sorority and fraternity members took part in the 2015 Community-wide Mental Health Forum on Tuesday, May 12, so they could learn more about issues related to mental illness, especially when it relates to the African-American community.
Some on the panel talked about the stigma of mental illness in the African-American community, and panelists discussed ways to overcome the stigma.
The forum was held at Winston-Salem State University's R.J. Reynolds Auditorium and was sponsored by the Winston-Salem Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Inc. and the Psi Phi Chapter of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity Inc.
Kimya Dennis, an assistant professor and coordinator of criminal justice at Salem College, moderated the event.
The panel was comprised of psychiatrist Rahn Bailey, director of Behavioral Health from Wake Forest Baptist Medical Center; WSSU Nursing Instructor and Family Nurse Practitioner Daphne Sharpe; and Forsyth County District Court Judge Camille Banks-Payne, who sits on the bench in the county's Mental Health Treatment Court. Others on the panel were Louise Whealton, president of Northwest Piedmont chapter of the National Alliance of Mental Illness, and Kathy Cunningham, an advocate and peer support specialist who was diagnosed with bipolar disorder.
Asked how they would define mental illness, panelists said that it includes all forms of brain impairment and social disorders that create conflicts personally, in the family or at the job. Cunningham said that for her, dealing with mental illness can be challenging.
"Because it attacks your mind, your physical body takes a hit because you are not taking care of yourself at all. You don't want to and you don't want to be bothered," she said.
Banks-Payne said that when your body is healthy, there are no limitations versus when it's not.
"You need your mind to be in a healthy state so you can function and be able to do the things that so many of us take for granted that if you're not mentally healthy, you would be impaired and not able to do that," Banks-Payne said.
Dennis broached the subject of how African-Americans deal with mental illness and how everyone will say that they have that "crazy uncle." She said that she believes that it's part of the stigma of mental health and why many of those in the culture can't admit it so that they can get help.
All of the panelists agreed that there is a need to talk openly about mental health and use education to help everyone understand the illness or what that person is going through. They did have different ideas on how the thought process could be changed by bringing the issue to light and having others understand that it's serious.
Banks-Payne said the religious community should be used as a platform.
"I think that sometimes there may be this view that there's a lack of faith if you get mental health treatment, or if you have a diagnosis you may have a demon. Those type of ideas are just out there," Banks-Payne said. "The church is one of the main avenues we need to bring the subject up and bring some awareness because there are a lot of stigmas in the community about it."
Whealton, a former teacher whose husband of 26 years was diagnosed with bipolar disorder, said that she feels that awareness about mental illness could be brought about in the school systems.
"I think if all people sat in a classroom and heard information, it would begin a generation of something else, like learning the symptoms of a stroke of how to know when your grandaddy's having a heart attack," Whealton said.
Sharpe said that it needs to become more common for both women and men to have routine mental health and depression screening when they go to their primary doctors.
Bailey said, that having been the director of a behavioral hospital before, he knows firsthand that the government and legislators rarely fund those institutions to the point that it can create a positive impact and reverse the thought of it not being as important as other illnesses.
"I think were there adequate financing behind mental illness, the stigma would change," Bailey said.
For more information on mental illness and programs in the area, visit the Mental Health Association of Forsyth County website at www.triadmentalhealth.org or call them at 336-768-3880.
African American communityDr. Kimya Dennisfeaturedmental illnessWinston-SalemWinston-Salem Alumnae Chapter of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Inc.Winston-Salem Psi Phi Chapter of Omega Psi Phi Fraternity Inc.Winston-Salem State University
Beyond Pesticides Daily News Blog » Blog Archive » Researchers Find Key Link in Malaria Transmission
WordPress.org	« Survey Shows Consumers Confused by USDA Organic, Want Both Local and Organic
School Districts Call for Reduced Pesticide Use in Florida »
04	Sep Researchers Find Key Link in Malaria Transmission
(Beyond Pesticides, September 4, 2007) Scientists identified an important biochemical piece in the passage of malaria from mosquitoes to humans. If this link in the chain can be broken at its source—the mosquito—then the spread of malaria could be stopped without the use of harmful pesticides or costly drugs.
"Mosquito Heparan Sulfate and Its Potential Role in Malaria Infection and Transmission," published in the August 31 issue of the Journal of Biological Chemistry, contains the findings of the interdisciplinary team led by researchers from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. The research group found that humans and the mosquitoes that carry the malaria parasite Plasmodium share the same complex carbohydrate, heparan sulfate. In both humans and mosquitoes, heparan sulfate is a receptor for the Plasmodium, binding to the parasite and giving it quick and easy transport through the body.
Robert J. Linhardt, Ph.D., professor of Biocatalysis and Metabolic Engineering at Rensselaer, led the team. "The discovery allows us to think differently about preventing the disease. If we can stop heparan sulfate from binding to the parasite in mosquitoes, we will not just be treating the disease, we will be stopping its spread completely," Dr. Linhardt said.
Malaria parasites are specific to their host, Dr. Linhardt explained. Birds, rodents, humans, and other primates all can be infected with malaria, but each species is infected by a different species of mosquito — and each of those mosquitoes is infected by a different parasite. In other words, there needs to be a perfect match at the molecular basis for malaria to spread from one species to another, Dr. Linhardt said. Researchers have long understood this deadly partnership, but the molecular basis for the match had never been determined.
Dr. Linhardt and his collaborators were the first to discover the link between the spread of malaria in humans and heparan sulfate in 2003. Those findings were also published in the Journal of Biological Chemistry. In this earlier study, Linhardt compared the receptors in the liver of humans to those of rodents. The liver is the first organ to be infected by the malaria parasite in mammals. The researchers found that heparan sulfate in the human liver was the unwitting transporter of the disease to the human bloodstream. The receptor found in rodents was a different heparan sulfate.
"The discovery marks a paradigm shift in stopping malaria," Dr. Linhardt said "Now, we can work to develop an environmentally safe, inexpensive way to block infection in mosquitoes and not have to worry about drug side effects in humans."
Malaria kills over one million people a year around the world, mostly young children. And the problem is growing, Dr. Linhardt noted. As the global temperatures increase, outbreaks of malaria are being reported higher up the coast of South America and Mexico each year, he said.
"Unfortunately, there is little direct funding on malaria in this country outside of the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, because it is not considered a major threat in this country," Dr. Linhardt said. "We do our research on a shoestring. Malaria research funding needs to move higher up on the scientific priority list."
The discovery comes one year after the World Health Organization (WHO) announced it supported the indoor use of DDT to control the spread of malaria in developing countries. Governmental agencies in the U.S. and internationally have classified DDT as an agent that can cause cancer and nerve damage, and a host of health effects are well documented. The new research may lead to an effective system of malaria control that is not reliant on harmful chemical compounds.
