Murmur Overview
Another name for Murmur is Heart Murmurs.
A person with a heart murmur has an extra sound made by the heart during each heartbeat. Heart sounds and heart murmurs are caused by the flow of blood through the heart. A heart murmur is identified by listening to the heart with a stethoscope. Heart murmurs may be normal, or may be caused by heart disease.
A person with a heart murmur usually has no symptoms. Symptoms that may occur with heart murmurs include chest pain, faintness, fainting, dizziness, palpitations, leg swelling, weakness, fatigue, and shortness of breath during exertion.
How does the doctor treat heart murmurs?
The treatment for a heart murmur depends on the underlying cause of the murmur. Treatment for a heart murmur may include medications to improve heart pumping or heart rate, blood thinners, and heart valve surgery.
Author Brady, A.; Willis, B.; Harder, L.; Vizel, P.
Title Lunar Phase Modulates Circadian Gene Expression Cycles in the Broadcast Spawning Coral Acropora millepora Type Journal Article
Year 2016 Publication Biological Bulletin Abbreviated Journal Biol Bullet
Volume 230 Issue 2 Pages 130-142
Keywords Animals; corals; Acropora millepora; lunar cycle; Circadian Rhythm; gene expression; moon
Abstract Many broadcast spawning corals in multiple reef regions release their gametes with incredible temporal precision just once per year, using the lunar cycle to set the night of spawning. Moonlight, rather than tides or other lunar-regulated processes, is thought to be the proximate factor responsible for linking the night of spawning to the phase of the Moon. We compared patterns of gene expression among colonies of the broadcast spawning coral Acropora millepora at different phases of the lunar cycle, and when they were maintained under one of three experimentally simulated lunar lighting treatments: i) lunar lighting conditions matching those on the reef, or lunar patterns mimicking either ii) constant full Moon conditions, or iii) constant new Moon conditions. Normal lunar illumination was found to shift both the level and timing of clock gene transcription cycles between new and full moons, with the peak hour of expression for a number of genes occurring earlier in the evening under a new Moon when compared to a full Moon. When the normal lunar cycle is replaced with nighttime patterns equivalent to either a full Moon or a new Moon every evening, the normal monthlong changes in the level of expression are destroyed for most genes. In combination, these results indicate that daily changes in moonlight that occur over the lunar cycle are essential for maintaining normal lunar periodicity of clock gene transcription, and this may play a role in regulating spawn timing. These data also show that low levels of light pollution may have an impact on coral biological clocks.
Address Department of Biological Science, University of Calgary, 2500 University Drive NW, Calgary, Alberta T2N 1N4, Canada; pvize(at)ucalgary.ca
Publisher Marine Biological Laboratory Place of Publication Editor
Call Number IDA @ john @ Serial 1476
Author Zielinska-Dabkowska, K.
Title Case study of "Walk": a video installation integrated into the facade of a store in Zurich/CH Type Journal Article
Year 2016 Publication Professional Lighting Design Abbreviated Journal Prof Lighting Des
Volume Issue 101 Pages 52-58
Keywords Lighting; planning; commentary
Abstract With the rapid development of solid state lighting technology and the availability of LED light sources, coupled with the benefits they offer such as energy efficiency, long lifespan and the fact that they can be controlled and programmed, we are now finding LEDs being more widely used for animated advertising. In spite of the pace at which SSL is developing, or perhaps because of this, there is a distinct lack of evaluation guidelines or recommendations for professional designers. It is therefore essential that more research is carried out on this issue on an international scale, and that experts in the field get their heads together in order to formulate some basic guidelines that can be applied in practice.
Address Faculty of Architecture & Design, Hochschule Wismar, Wismar, Germany; k.zielinska-dabkowska(at)hs-wismar.de
New research finds no association between white potato consumption (baked, boiled mashed) and obesity, Type 2 diabetes or systemic inflammation | Knowledge Wealth Centre
← How to Prevent Violent Criminal Behavior in the Next Generation
What "The Love Bridge" Tells Us About How Thoughts and Emotions Interact →
SAN DIEGO, Calif., April 25, 2012 – Preliminary Research presented today at The Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology (FASEB) Conference in San Diego demonstrates that habitual consumption of white potatoes (baked, boiled and mashed) is not associated with obesity, type 2 diabetes or levels of C-reactive protein, a marker of systemic inflammation once potential confounding factors are controlled for (e.g., age, gender, and education). Previous studies examining the association between potato consumption and disease states have failed to consider demographic factors that could potentially confound the relationships such as age, gender, race/ethnicity, and education. "One of the purposes of this study was that we hypothesized demographic factors – particularly socioeconomic status – might be associated with both potato consumption and the prevalence of obesity and diabetes. Therefore we controlled for these factors," said lead researcher Adam Drewnowski, PhD, Professor of Epidemiology and Director of the Nutritional Sciences Program at the University of Washington.
Read More: New research finds no association between white potato consumption (baked, boiled mashed) and obesity, Type 2 diabetes or systemic inflammation
This entry was posted in Diabetes, Headlines, Health Related, Nutrition and tagged adam drewnowski, Age, american societies, c reactive protein, Conference, confounding factors, consumption, demographic factors, diabetes, disease, disease states, education, EurekAlert, FASEB, federation of american societies for experimental biology, gender, gender and education, gender race, Myers, nutritional sciences program, obesity, PhD, phd professor, preliminary research, prevalence of obesity, Professor, Program, protein, race, race ethnicity, Societies, socioeconomic status, Study, systemic inflammation, today, type, type 2 diabetes, University, white potato, white potatoes. Bookmark the permalink.
Why Vascular Vein Center Is Your Any Day Reliable Partner - Dylan Dog Dead Of Night
Vascular Vein Centers is a vascular and veins center dedicated to offering the best services in vein care and leg health. Vascular Vein Centers are located in Orlando, East Orlando, Kissimmee, Lake Mary, The Villages, Davenport/ Haines City, and Rockledge/Viera, Florida. The centers have experienced specialists who conduct diagnosis and treatments of Kissimmee chronic venous insufficiency.
Vascular Vein Centers also provide some customized treatments, which include; ultrasound-guided sclerotherapy, vena seal, and the endo-venous laser treatment. Their Vascular ultrasound laboratories are accredited by and adhere to the standards and the cyclic review compliance due to the ever-developing standards. The laboratories are certified by the Intersocietal Accreditation Commission and provide accreditation programs that include vascular testing. Services offered at Vascular Vein Centers are of high quality and aim to promote healthcare and patient care. The team of experts is able to prevent skin from breaking or developing ulcers.
VENOUS ULCERS AND WOUND CARE
Venous ulcers are a result of a complication of venous disease. The ulcers are chronic and painful sores that ooze fluid. They usually affect; below the calf on the side of a leg, around the anklebone, or the foot. The first symptom of a developing ulcer is the development of a dark, reddish-brown, or discoloration of the purple skin. At Vascular Vein Centers, specialists offer exceptional wound care and treatment for venous ulcers advice on preventive measures that helps in reducing infections. Their team and experts deliver the very best evidence-based treatments for these ulcers.
They are caused by chronic venous insufficiency, a condition that weakens the valve in leg veins or develops a fault. The valves prevent the flow back of blood to the heart; thus, when they are destroyed, blood starts to pool in the lower legs causing disorders such as a varicose vein, lymphedema, and skin changes.
Skin occurs after a short while since the red blood cells and fluid leak out of the veins to the surrounding tissues. The skin is thus damaged by making it darker, thicker, and drier hence any trauma to the skin breaks it leaving an open wound known as a venous ulcer.
Treatment of underlying causes of Venous Ulcers
The team at Vascular Vein Centers uses the most advanced treatment forms that improve vein health and circulation, and they include; Endo-venous laser therapy, Ultrasound-guided sclerotherapy, Varithena foam sclerotherapy, VenaSeal medical adhesive. The healing process of venous ulcers takes several months but sometimes may take longer. Severe complications may lead to the loss of the limb.
Putting patients' care and well-being first of patients is achieved by first studying and investing in the emerging treatments of the vein and on the latest technology, ensuring patients receive fast, effective with minimal invasion care. A lot of patients have benefited from personalized outpatient therapies to relieve their symptoms and recover faster. Vascular Vein Centers accepts most insurance plans MEDICARE included and welcomes new patients. Patients who need services offered at Vascular Vein Centers should schedule an appointment by either calling or by using the online scheduling tool.
Acorda Therapeutics Competitors - CB Insights
Acorda Therapeutics acorda.com
Acorda Therapeutics, a privately held biotechnology company, is developing therapies for spinal cord injury (SCI and related neurological conditions, including multiple sclerosis (MS. The Companyƒ-s lead product, Fampridine-SR, is in Phase 3 clinical trials for chronic SCI and Phase 2 for MS. Acordaƒ-s technology platform includes two remyelinating agents in preclinical development for MS. They include M1, a class of human monoclonal antibodies, and GGF2, a product of the neuregulin 1 gene. Bo...Show all
Acorda Therapeutics, a privately held biotechnology company, is developing therapies for spinal cord injury (SCI and related neurological conditions, including multiple sclerosis (MS. The Companyƒ-s lead product, Fampridine-SR, is in Phase 3 clinica...Show all
All investors data 41 Investors
Asia Pacific Ventures
Phone: 914-347-4300
Acorda Therapeutics $201.5M	 Oct 6, 2006
See all 24 competitors
Related Acorda Therapeutics Jobs
See all 41 investors
Fallbrook, California, United States Acquired HNC Software is a provider of Customer Insight software that enables companies to acquire, manage and retain customers. HNC's decision management and customer analytics technology analyze both structured and unstructured data so companies can derive value from all information. The company's sophisticated software is used in the telecommunications, financial services, insurance and e-commerce industries. Login to see details
South San Francisco, California, United States Acquired Hyperion Therapeutics is a privately held specialty therapeutics company focused on the development of therapies that address needs in the areas of gastroenterology and hepatology. In partnership with Ucyclyd Pharma, Hyperion is conducting ongoing research and development of HPN-100 for urea cycle disorders, hepatic encephalopathy, and other forms of hyperammonemia. Login to see details
Water-soluble acetaminophen analogs	 Mar 22, 2016 May 29, 2018 Patent
Compositions and methods for promoting neuronal outgrowth	 Jun 10, 2016 May 01, 2018 Patent
Therapeutic dosing of a neuregulin or a subsequence thereof for treatment or prophylaxis of heart failure	 Oct 30, 2015 May 01, 2018 Patent
Partners Clinical Research Office (PCRO) | Health Research Management | Medical Research | Partners HealthCare
Home > Research > Resources and Information > Research Support Offices > Partners Clinical Research Office - PCRO
Partners Clinical Research Office
Partners Clinical Research Office (PCRO) is responsible for developing, negotiating, and executing agreements and budgets for industry-sponsored clinical research at some entities within the Partners HealthCare hospital system.PCRO provides these services for Massachusetts General Hospital, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Faulkner Hospital, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital, McLean Hospital and Partners Community Healthcare, Inc. (PCHI).
Please contact the PCRO Helpline for additional information or assistance: PCRO@partners.org or 617-954-9392Click below for a listing of PCRO agreement associates and financial analysts and the departments for which they are responsible. PCRO agreement associates departmental responsibility list PCRO financial analysts departmental responsibility list
About PCRO The mission of Partners Clinical Research Office (PCRO) is to support research and the translation of Partners HealthCare science to the patient bedside.
For Investigators PCRO offers information on agreements, clinical trial agreements, clinical research support agreements, confidentiality agreements, budgeting for clinical research studies, Medicare coverage analysis, Medicare petitions for device studies, and required forms.
For Industry PCRO is dedicated to facilitating collaborations between academic medical centers and industry. These collaborations are beneficial to both parties and continue to result in advances in health care for patients both within and beyond Partners HealthCare.
Links to research efforts at hospitals across Partners HealthCare as well as to Partners' policies and procedures.
Contact PCRO Industry-sponsored clinical research agreements are now submitted to PCRO through InfoEd Proposal Development (PD). PIs / Departments must submit their new industry-sponsored clinical research agreements through PD. Please note amendments, subcontracts and CDA's are not submitted through PD. Please email your PCRO agreement associate directly about those requests.
PCRO Helpline
For assistance with industry-sponsored clinical research contract and budget negotiation, approval, fund activation, Medicare Coverage Analysis and Medicare device petition issues, please contact the PCRO office:pcro@partners.org617-954-9392
A Guide to Improving Healthcare Standards | Online Like - Business, Tech, and Lifestyle Magazine!
A Guide to Improving Healthcare Standards
In the UK alone, avoidable medical errors are the cause of thousands of deaths each year. In addition to contending with avoidable errors and lower standards, patients face increasingly long waiting times for appointments, which can cause unnecessary suffering.
For the sector to enjoy improved patient outcomes, both organizations and healthcare professionals must strive to improve safety, care coordination, and the patient experience. Read this guide to improving healthcare standards.
photo by: Sharp HealthCare
Cleanliness and Comfort is Key
Work on Bedside Manner
Support Nursing Care
Before a healthcare organization starts making large or small changes to its processes, procedures, or environment, it must analyze its existing data to identify improvement opportunities. For instance, you can identify statistics and trends by analyzing your electronic health records and outcome studies.
Also, hospitals and medical practices can use data mining and machine learning to predict medical outcomes. A predictive model is built from existing data to provide macro-and micro-level solutions and will alert a healthcare practitioner of the potential risk to a patient based on past outcomes.
Most hospitals and medical practices are full to the brim with talent and expertise. Yet, a registered nurse, physician, or administrator might fail to take the next step in their career due to a fear of failure, a lack of confidence, or poor training opportunities.
If you know a job like the back of your hand, it might be time to grow your qualifications to help develop the next wave of healthcare professionals. For example, if you have completed various advanced nursing degrees, a natural next step might be to become a nurse educator. You can then devote the rest of your career to building aspiring nurses' knowledge, skills, and confidence in their roles. Your experience and guidance can ensure standards continue to rise each passing year, which will improve the patient experience and outcomes before and after your retirement.
Every healthcare department should have a perfect balance of skills, experience, and backgrounds. For example, a senior leader must guide the team to success, advise on processes and procedures, protect standards and advocate for subordinates. Also, a clinical expert must be on staff to help a team make important medical decisions. It will provide practitioners with greater confidence in their role while learning from an experienced leader's expertise.
Encourage patients to return to your hospital or practice by striving to provide a welcoming and warm environment. Your front office staff will set the tone for the patient experience, which is why you must ensure they appear friendly, helpful, and inviting when a patient walks through the door.
Simple gestures can make a big difference to the patient experience and shine a positive light on an organization. Encourage your front office staff to greet every patient or visitor, smile naturally, and appear friendly and helpful during the check-in process. It will start the visit off right and provide patients and their loved ones with greater confidence in an organization, its skills, and its standards.
Patients expect to enter a hygienic and comfortable hospital or practice. If the furniture is uncomfortable, the floors are dirty and the lighting is harsh, a patient or visitor will question a facility's standards and expertise. What's more, an unhygienic space can increase the risk of hospital-acquired infections, disease, medical errors, and therefore could have legal consequences.
Transform standards by improving cleanliness and hygiene across every department, which will prevent avoidable medical complications and stop germs and bacteria from reaching visitors and the local community. Also, you can create a more welcoming, comfortable environment with comfortable seating, warm lighting, supportive beds, and spa-like music to help relax patients.
As physicians and nurses are often busy tending to many patients, they might neglect their bedside manner. While focus and tunnel vision is crucial, every healthcare practitioner must display an excellent bedside manner.
Most patients want to speak to a doctor or nurse who not only has fantastic knowledge and skills but who listens to their concerns and answers their questions thoughtfully. A friendly, helpful, and warm presence will make a patient feel more comfortable with a medical professional, a procedure, and the hospital itself. Plus, they will be more likely to listen carefully to a nurse or doctor's direction and follow a treatment plan to the letter, which will lead to improved recovery times, infection rates, and patient outcomes.
No hospital or medical practice is perfect, as mistakes can happen, steps can be missed and communication can grind to a halt. Yet, you can nip potential problems in the bud by sending automated patient satisfaction surveys via email or text message to a past patient.
A quick survey after a visit can help a facility generate feedback from a patient who might have experienced an issue or concern during their visit or stay. After reviewing the information, your team can improve the quality of the services to transform the patient experience and boost an organization's reputation.
As nurses will often spend the most time with a patient, they can shape their perception of care. According to recent research, a nurse's work environment can determine the patient experience. A healthy environment allows nurses to achieve their goals while enjoying professional satisfaction, and this positivity filters down to patient care. For example, nurses must feel challenged to use their skills, expertise, and clinical knowledge regularly, which will lead to a better patient experience.
According to research, nurses need the following eight essentials to provide a higher standard of nursing care:
Competent nurses
Nursing practice control
A positive patient culture
Supportive nurse-physician relationships
Nurse manager support
Healthcare organizations cannot afford to allow standards to slip, as it can lead to poor patient experiences, unsatisfactory medical outcomes, slow recovery rates, and reduced morale. Hospitals, clinics, and practices must therefore improve nursing care, increase hygiene standards, provide more training opportunities and create a welcoming, comfortable environment for every patient and visitor.
Posted by Susan Eymann, MS on Jan 23, 2019
Diabetes: Diabetes is the most common cause of kidney failure. The results of the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) funded by the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases (NIDDK) show that moderate exercise, a healthier diet, and weight reduction can prevent the development of type 2 diabetes in persons at risk.
Genetics/Environmental Factors: It has been established that genetic determinants greatly influence the development and progression of CKD. While it is not possible to alter a person's biology and genetic determinants, it has also been established that environmental influences and individual behaviors have a significant impact on the development and progression of CKD. As a result, some populations are disproportionately affected. Successful behavior modification is expected to have a positive influence on the disease.
Too Much Protein: Over the past decade, several studies have shown that proteinuria (too much protein in the urine) predicts faster progression of kidney disease to ESRD. This is especially true in persons with diabetes. Fortunately, these and other studies have shown that drugs that reduce proteinuria can also slow the progression of established kidney disease. These drugs include angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers (ARBs).
All racial and ethnic groups can benefit equally from these lifestyle modification programs. Volunteer organizations and communities around the country have launched programs that promote healthier lifestyles to prevent diabetes. These initiatives, community programs, and guidelines are consistent with the Chronic Kidney Disease objectives for Healthy People 2020.
External experts participate in the RESISTIRÉ project as members of our dedicated Advisory Board. Their role is to provide knowledgeable inputs and insights to research ethics, the conceptual and methodological developments and impacts, and challenge conventional thinking on crucial aspects of the project.
Lucía Artazcoz, MPH, PhD
Specialist in preventive medicine and public health, work-related gender inequalities in health, and psychosocial hazards at work. Since 1990 she has worked at the Barcelona Public Health Agency, where she is the Director of the Public Health Observatory. She is an associate professor at Pompeu Fabra University and Johns Hopkins University. She has published scientific articles and book chapters on gender inequalities in health related to work, such as the work-family balance, housewives, long working hours, job instability, unemployment, early retirement or marital status, or of coexistence. She has been the coordinator of the 2010 Report of the Spanish Society of Public Health and Health Administration (Health in all policies: a challenge for public health in Spain) and has been a member of scientific committees and organizers of several conferences.
Wiebe Bijker
Wiebe Bijker is Professor of Technology and Society at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) in Trondheim and Professor emeritus at Maastricht University. He is chairing the selection committee of the National Research Agenda of The Netherlands (2018-2022). His research and teaching focus on the role of science and technology in modern societies, vulnerabilities in technological cultures and new forms of governance to democratize society, science and technology.
Click here for more information 
Marcella Corsi
Marcella Corsi is Professor of Economics at the Sapienza University of Rome. She holds a Ph.D. in Economics from the University of Manchester (UK) and a degree in Statistics/Economics from University of Rome “La Sapienza”. She has worked as consultant for European Commission, European Parliament and OECD, and for several Italian institutions. She is among the founders of the association Economia Civile and the web-magazine inGenere.it.
She is a feminist economist and her research activity mainly focuses on issues related to Social Inclusion, Social protection and Income distribution. In these fields of study, she is the author of several articles published in English and Italian, and she has been one of the scientific coordinators of the European Network of Gender Equality Experts www.enege.eu. Since March 2017 she is the editor of the International Review of Sociology and the coordinator of Minerva – Laboratory on Gender Diversity and Gender Inequality.
Miguel Lorente
Expert on gender-based violence and former Government Delegate for Gender-based Violence attached to the Ministry of Equality, from 2008 to 2011. Professor of Legal Medicine at the University of Granada (Spain), also a Forensic Doctor, specialist in Legal and Forensic Medicine, and Master in Bioethics and Medical Law. Lorente is also a writer and a contributor to Spanish newspapers such as El Pais, eldiario.es, the Huffington Post, and InfoLibre.
Alessandro Saffiotti
Alessandro Saffiotti is full professor of Computer Science at Orebro University, Sweden, where he leads the AASS Cognitive Robotic Systems Lab. He received a PhD in 1998 in Applied Science from the Universite Libre de Bruxelles, Belgium. His research interests encompass artificial intelligence, cognitive robotics, and technology for elderly people. He is a director of euRobotics, the European robotics association, and the scientific manager of AI4EU, the EU landmark project to develop the European AI platform and ecosystem. He has published more than 200 papers in international journals and conferences, pioneering the area of integrating AI and Robotics, and receiving more than 9400 citations with an h-index of 50 (data from Google Scholar). He has participated in 14 EU projects, several EU networks, and many national projects. He is on the editorial board of Artificial Intelligence and of the Int Journal on Social Robotics. He is a member of AAAI, a senior member of IEEE, and a fellow of EurAI.
Anna Swift Johannison
Mrs Swift-Johannison is a gender+ equality strategist in public health. She has worked with gendered and intersectional public health issues since the mid 1980s, at national, regional and local levels, at for example the Swedish Public Health Authority, Ministry of Social Affairs, and Örebro University. She is an expert in public health policy evaluation and gender+ health equality strategies. She was the coordinator of the Regional Public Health Commission (2017) and responsible for the Action Plan for Gender Equal Public Health (2019).
Mieke Verloo
Mieke Verloo is Professor of Comparative Politics and Inequality Issues at Radboud University in the Netherlands, and Non-Residential Permanent Fellow at the IWM, Institute for Human Sciences in Vienna. She has extensive publications on gender equality policymaking in Europe, on gender mainstreaming and on intersectionality. Part of her current work is on the complex relationship between democracy and gender+ equality. (see Varieties of opposition to gender equality in Europe, 2018), and the 2018 Special Issue ‘The feminist project under threat in Europe’ in, co-edited with David Paternotte. More recently she has worked on understanding gender regimes, and on gendered body politics, see the 2020 Special Issue on Trans* Politics, co-edited with Anna van der Vleuten.
Jenny Westerstrand
Jenny Westerstrand, LLM and a LLD, Uppsala University. Westerstrand’s field of research is gender and violence and jurisprudence focusing on gender and human rights. Jenny Westerstrand’s research revolves around law and society from a feminist perspective. She was the coordinator of the first national prevalence study on men’s violence against women in Sweden, Captured Queen (Lundgren et al 2001). Westerstrand wrote her thesis on conflicting perspectives on human rights on the fields of prostitution and human trafficking and has since then been researching sexual violence and honour related violence, from a feminist perspective. She’s been a member of researcher networks at the EU and Nordic level and she has been teaching law at several universities. Westerstrand was employed as senior lector at Umeå University for a couple of years, but since 2018 she is President of Roks, the national Organisation for Women’s Shelters and Young Women’s Shelters in Sweden.
More advisory board members will be announced later
Newsletter
Keep in touch
Subscribe to our newsletter to receive project news, development and results.
Subscribe here
Disclaimer
The contents of this website reflect the view of the RESISTIRÉ project. The views expressed on the website do not necessarily reflect the views of the EC. This project has received funding from the EU Horizon2020 research and innovation programme under grant agreement no. 101015990
Privacy Policy
Our Privacy Policy applies to the RESISTIRÉ website and governs personal information and collection usage by the website only. RESISTIRÉ website is committed to being transparent and to ensuring your privacy is protected. By using this website, you consent to the personal information practices described in this policy.
Contact us
Project coordinator
European Science Foundation
resistire_eu@esf.org
Follow us
© Resistiré 2021. All rights reserved. Designed with love in Strasbourg. Legal notices - Privacy policy - Sitemap
About Fortitude Functional Nutrition | Fortitude Functional Nutrition
Everything we do at Fortitude Functional Nutrition is centered around you because without your active participation on this journey, none of our wisdom will create you long-term vibrant health. The path to great health is never a straight line and there will be bumps on the road.
Rooted in our focus on client care, it is our mission to empower you with the knowledge and wisdom from collective experience to create optimal health. We embrace the challenge of going deep and revealing what others may have not been able to figure out. We are intent to continue learning about the evolving changes in nutrition and how it relates to medicine. Guided step-by-step, you will embark on a functional, integrative and holistic approach to your wellness. It includes diet, lifestyle, and mindset modifications.
You will receive dedicated one-on-one attention, support, education, accountability, and guidance. In our program, you will learn how our process and approach differs from conventional and routine forms of care, including nutrition guidelines and meal plans. Your lab recommendations, nutrient assessment, personalized protocol, and customized food plan will be based on your individual needs and situation. They are very unique and case-by-case for each individual client.
No client is exactly the same. There are many factors that affect your health from lifestyle to environment to diet and mindset. Depending on your situation, we may use functional tests and other assessment tools to dig deeper. Our program is effective because we focus on dealing with the catalyst of your conditions, which may include toxicity in the home or workplace, potential food sensitivities, intolerances and allergies, your digestion, and your attitude, which can all play a role in how healthy you are to date. Then we strategically take you through the 5R process and create your personalized protocol with action steps to conquer your health goals for good.
After receiving a phone call that informed me that my mother was diagnosed with Stage-3 breast cancer I moved back to my home state, Colorado. Through my search for her cure, I discovered the power of healthy foods and lifestyle choices as the real medicine for illness. My new discovery led me back to school where I studied holistic and functional nutrition and I was hooked.
At this point, I started to analyze my own fast-paced lifestyle and realized that I was putting blinders on my own health. I worked through my fatigue, never stopping to listen to my body. Later testing revealed extremely high Epstein Barr Virus, also known as Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. I started to put my health puzzle together. I discovered gluten and other food intolerances, thyroid and gut imbalances. Something had to change...
"Through working with Julie, I have eliminated Candida from my GI test and have corrected a moderate case of dysbiosis (loosing 30 pounds in the process!). I also have lots less pain associated with inflammation and no more acid-reflux. Julie's personal care, availability, and her willingness to let me help in the diagnostic process was just what I needed to get through a much-needed major nutrition transformation."
"Julie is an amazing professional and even better person. She has helped me with a variety of physical ailments and issues. Julie is willing to go the extra mile or six at any time. She even summoned a different professional to deal with bone health for me. With this action alone, Julie showed her true colors and put me and my health above her own interests and monetary gain. I have referred my wife, father, and kids to Julie. The results speak for themselves!"
Carolene Quezada
"As a nurse, COV!D-19 survivor & unfortunately a Long Hauler who suffered many months of debilitating side effects from Cov!d, it was Julie & her passionate work that came to my rescue when doctors were clueless on how to proceed to get me strong & healthy again. Julie has had a huge, positive impact on my recovery & my return to work as a nurse."
