Our Ears, Nose and Throat (ENT) department specializes in the diagnosis and treatment of disorders of the head and neck. The physicians working with Become Pain Free are considered excellent resources for diagnosing and the treatment for common problems like:
Make an appointment with one of Become Pain Frees ENTs to relieve the symptoms and discomfort of some of these common Ears, Nose and Throat issues.
Otolaryngology Comprehensive care for ear, nose, and throat disorders and his practice is considered a center of excellence for snoring/sleep apnea, sinus surgery, and care of the professional voice
Preeclampsia and Pregnancy - LifeMof
History of eclampsia or preeclampsia:
Maiden pregnancy:
New pregnancy with new paternity:
Multiple fetuses:
Short intervals between births:
Treatment and Prevention of preeclampsia:
1.Antihypertensives:
2.Anticonvulsants:
Example of Prevention of preeclampsia:
Foods that might help in the prevention of preeclampsia:
Preeclampsia is a condition that occurs during pregnancy or shortly after delivery, where pregnant women have high blood pressure, swelling on the feet and hands and possibly protein in their urine. This condition was formerly known as toxemia. When it occurs, it ranges from mild to severe.
In some cases, low clotting factors or platelets may be detected in blood, which are indicators of liver or kidney issues. Generally, Preeclampsia and Pregnancy occur around the 20th week of pregnancy, but in some cases, it may occur earlier or even a few weeks after delivery.
Severe cases of preeclampsia lead to eclampsia, a condition where high blood pressure leads to seizures. This poses serious health risks for both the mother and the child, and in some very rare severe cases, death. Eclampsia also occurs during pregnancy or in some rare cases after delivery.
Research suggests that close to 5% of pregnant women get preeclampsia.
There is still no definitive Causes of preeclampsia, but doctors are still exploring potential causes that include blood vessel issues, genetic factors, and autoimmune disorders.
Most cases are attached to issues to do with blood vessels. Most experts suggest that there might be difficulties in the development of the placenta as the vessels supplying it with blood and nourishments are smaller or somewhat narrower than usual, and they have different responses to hormones. In such cases, there is limited blood flow to the placenta. Experts suggest the following could be possible causes for narrower blood vessels although the reasons are not entirely known.
Insufficient blood flow into the uterus
As part of the causes, doctors have identified risk factors that increase pregnant women's chances of developing preeclampsia. They include;
If a pregnant woman has been exposed to preeclampsia before, or if there has been a preeclampsia case in the family history, the chances are high that she might develop the condition.
Chronic hypertension means high blood pressure that occurs before the 20th week of pregnancy or that was present before pregnancy. It has no symptoms, and it could be hard to determine the origin. If a pregnant lady has chronic hypertension, there are higher risks of developing preeclampsia.
During the first pregnancy, there is a higher chance of developing preeclampsia.
Getting pregnant with a new pregnancy with Preeclampsia increases the chances of developing preeclampsia, compared to a third or fourth pregnancy with the same partner.
Although the chances of developing preeclampsia are higher in young pregnant women, they are equally high in women above 35.
If you're carrying a set of twins or triplets (basically more than one fetus), the chances of developing this condition are higher.
If you're having babies frequently, about less than two years apart, or more than ten years apart, you're more likely to develop preeclampsia.
More risk factors include conceiving through Vitro fertilization, being obese, having a history of high blood pressure, kidney disorders, diabetes, and migraines. Lastly, if you have a history or a tendency to develop lupus or blood clots, the risks of developing preeclampsia are higher.
Preeclampsia has no symptoms in most cases, and if they are present, they could be hard to notice. The most common signs are high blood pressure and protein in the urine. These two are the early signs for the majority of cases, although you may not notice them unless a doctor takes the tests during the antenatal visits.
It's important to note that most women experience high blood pressure during pregnancy, but that doesn't necessarily suggest a case of preeclampsia. The most definitive sign of the condition is a protein in the urine.
As the condition progresses, the pregnant woman may experience some signs such as edema and slight swellings in the face, hands, and ankles. Also, remember swelling is common in pregnancy, especially the third trimester, so you should not be quick to judge a case of preeclampsia.
Later on, in addition to swelling and protein in the urine, the following symptoms might occur;
Slight headaches, and sometimes severe
Pains in the belly, especially upper right side
Reduced peeing and sometimes not at all
There are no clear strategies for the treatment of this condition, but research is ongoing. Firstly, it's important to note that this condition cannot be treated till delivery. Unless her blood pressure lowers, the pregnant woman is still at risk of stroke or severe bleeding. However, in some rare cases, delivery is not the best option for both the mother and baby. Such cases are where the condition started earlier during pregnancy.
All in all, doses of the following might work.
These are drugs that are used to bring down blood pressure.
These drugs are only used in severe cases and are used to prevent a seizure.
These drugs improve liver functioning as well as the platelet count. In most cases, these are used when the mother has HELLP syndrome.
On this, there are still no clear strategies, but if you have a history of the condition, it's important to take some steps to protect you and the baby. Examples include;
embarking on a weight-loss mission (if you're overweight),
eating fewer sugars
There is no magic pill to avoiding preeclampsia. However, it all starts with eating a balanced diet and avoiding processed foods that might help in the prevention of preeclampsia. We recommend the following nutritional advice for pregnant women.
This can be found in leafy greens such as kales, citrus fruits, fortified cereals, and dried beans. Folic acid is very crucial in preventing congenital disabilities and reducing the risks of premature births.
Eating high amounts of healthy proteins is important for pregnant ladies. Besides helping with preeclampsia, proteins are beneficial to meet the daily needs of the growing baby. Dairy products include milk, cheese, and yogurt. Besides, dairy products contain considerable amounts of calcium, which is also beneficial for both the mother and the child. However, it would be best if you were careful with the yogurt you choose as we have so many unworthy brands out there. We highly recommend Greek yogurt.
This group of foods includes lentils, peas, soybeans, dried beans, and peanuts. They contain high amounts of folic acid, fiber, protein, iron, calcium, and folate, which the body greatly needs during pregnancy. Some legumes are also high in magnesium, which is essential in keeping preeclampsia away.
Salmon is a great source of omega 3 fatty acids, which are perfect boosters of immunity. They are very helpful in the health and wellbeing of the baby. However, some seafood contains lots of mercy. Examples of such include sharks and swordfish, which should be avoided.
Generally, eat lots of vegetables and fresh fruits. Also, make sure your foods are based on starchy foods such as rice and pasta, and if it's possible, let it be whole grain. Lastly, avoid as much as possible foods rich in added sugar such as soft drinks, cakes, sweets, and biscuits.
If you're pregnant, you don't have to worry about the risks of preeclampsia. If you happen to have this condition, keep in mind that it's not a death sentence. Make sure you make enough antenatal visits and you follow a healthy diet.
7 thoughts on "Preeclampsia and Pregnancy"
November 18, 2020 at 1:55 ams Reply
Addiction Treatment Centers MO
December 4, 2020 at 10:35 ams Reply
December 4, 2020 at 11:56 ams Reply
Thanks for your publish. I have often seen that many people are desirous to lose weight as they wish to look slim as well as attractive. Having said that, they do not constantly realize that there are additional benefits just for losing weight additionally. Doctors declare that overweight people experience a variety of diseases that can be perfectely attributed to their particular excess weight. Thankfully that people who definitely are overweight and also suffering from several diseases can help to eliminate the severity of their particular illnesses by losing weight. It is easy to see a progressive but identifiable improvement in health when even a small amount of fat loss is accomplished.
Anxiety in School: How Parents Can Help | Newport Academy
August 23, 2018 November 27, 2018
Most teens get a little anxious about starting school. A certain amount of school-related anxiety is normal for adolescents. But when nervousness crosses over into full-fledged anxiety in school, teens need extra support.
Anxiety disorders in teenagers is increasingly common among adolescents. In fact, studies show that nearly 32 percent of American teens between the ages of 13 and 18 suffer from an anxiety disorder at some point.
Therefore, parents need to know how to recognize the difference between an anxiety disorder and normal levels of anxiety in school.
Back-to-School Anxiety—or a Teen Anxiety Disorder?
There is a significant difference between temporary anxiety over school and an anxiety disorder that requires professional treatment. For example, teens with an anxiety disorder experience very high levels of anxiety. Moreover, these feelings get worse over time, rather than improving on their own.
In addition, teens with anxiety disorders struggle with feelings of tension and fear. These symptoms are ongoing and interfere with daily activities. Furthermore, the disorder affects relationships with peers and family members.
While there are different types of teen anxiety disorders, many of these disorders manifest in a set of common symptoms. Here are some of the signs that a child is experiencing a level of anxiety that warrants an assessment by a mental health professional.
Loss of appetite and other changes in eating habits
Frequent unexplained physical complaints, such as stomachaches and headaches
Using drugs and drinking as forms of self-medication for anxiety
Avoiding people, places, and things that trigger anxious feelings
Parents who recognize these symptoms in a teen should reach out for support and an expert assessment.
"Every child is different, especially as they mature into adolescence, so parents need to judge behavior and happiness levels based on their intimate knowledge of their unique child, rather than on any checklist that describes the "average" child."
—Barbara Nosal, PhD, LMFT, LDAC, Newport Academy's Chief Clinical Officer
School and stress seem to go hand in hand for many teenagers. Anxiety at school is very common.
Moreover, anxiety disorders in teens aged 12 to 17 are on the rise. In fact, anxiety disorders are the most common mental health disorders of childhood and adolescence.
Research shows that high school students today have more anxiety symptoms and are twice as likely to see a mental health professional as teens in the 1980s.
It's not just high school students who deal with anxiety in school. In addition, college students experience high anxiety levels.
Anxiety disorders are one of most common mental health problems on college campuses, according to the Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA). Here are some recent statistics from the ADAA:
30 percent of college students report that stress negative impacts their academic performance
85 percent of college students report feeling overwhelmed by everything they have to do
41.6 percent list anxiety as their top concern
24.5 percent of college students reported taking psychotropic medication for anxiety or depression.
Generalized Anxiety Disorder (GAD) is the most common teen anxiety disorder. Onset can be as early as age 6, but symptoms usually appear around age 11.
This type of anxiety in teenagers involves excessive anxiety or worry over everyday events, which lasts for a prolonged period of time. Teens with generalized anxiety experience intense emotional stress. In addition, they have a range of anxiety-related symptoms, including those listed above. Moreover, teens with GAD typically experience excessive worrying and low self-esteem.
Researchers theorize that the causes of general anxiety disorder include a disruption in how the brain reacts to the signals it uses to identify and confront danger. Fortunately, however, GAD is very treatable.
Effective therapeutic modalities for teen anxiety include Cognitive Behavioral Therapy (CBT), Dialectical Behavioral Therapy (DBT), Motivational Enhancement Therapy, and a wide range of experiential therapies. In fact, more than 40 randomized clinical trials support the efficacy of CBT for the treatment of anxiety disorders in children and adolescents.
Social Anxiety in School
Teens with social anxiety find school extremely challenging. Sometimes referred to as social phobia, social anxiety disorder is when a person is overcome with fear and worry in social settings. Therefore, this type of anxiety in teenagers negatively impacts a teen's everyday activities, including time in school.
Typically, a person with a social phobia experiences intense anxiety that leads to deep feelings of embarrassment and fear of being judged by others. Consequently, a teen with social phobia often withdraws and avoids contact with peers and teachers. Thus, social anxiety can be paralyzing for teenagers in school.
Subsequent difficulties caused by social anxiety symptoms arise in school, at work, and in personal relationships. Therefore, teens who experience these symptoms for more than six months are often diagnosed with social anxiety.
Additional social anxiety symptoms include
Unexpected blushing
Fear of having to talk or perform in front of a group.
Anxiety attacks often begin in the late teens or early adulthood. Unlike panic attacks, anxiety attacks are reactions to external stressors, such as anxiety in school.
An anxiety attack is typically a symptom of an anxiety disorder. However, not everyone with an anxiety disorder will experience anxiety attacks.
A teenager undergoing an anxiety attack in school might experience any or all of the following symptoms:
Dizziness and wooziness.
However, anxiety attacks tend to be short-lived. As a result, they pass once the stressor is removed. Therefore, teens with anxiety in school may experience such attacks during the school day, but not at home.
The Link Between Anxiety and Teen Substance Abuse
Research shows that teen anxiety is linked with increased substance use. That's because teens with anxiety often use alcohol or drugs to self-medicate the painful feelings associated with the disorder. In one study of adolescents aged 13 to 18, teens with a psychiatric diagnosis were four times more likely to have tried illicit drugs.
Another study followed children who had been treated for anxiety disorders. Seven years after treatment, the adolescents who no longer suffered from anxiety were far less likely to abuse substances than those whose anxiety continued.
The study authors wrote, "Research suggests that the [results] of childhood anxiety disorders, if left untreated, can include substance abuse."
Therefore, treating teen anxiety can also avoid the risk of substance abuse disorder.
Back-to-School Tips for Dealing with Anxiety
Parents can help their teens learn how to deal with anxiety in school. Furthermore, they can serve as role models for stress management.
"The biggest gift parents can give their kids is the ability to cope with stressful situations," says Dr. Nosal. "And children learn by example. Therefore, parents need to be mindful of how they manage their own stress. In particular, that includes what they say and do in front of their children."
Moreover, when parents are anxious, children not only sense it, but the stress also trickles down, Dr. Nosal says. "Children today are under enough stress of their own without taking on parental anxiety," she notes.
Tools for Addressing Anxiety in School
Stress-relief tools give teens new, positive ways to respond to feelings of anxiety in school. Here are some powerful back-to-school tips for parents to share with teens. These approaches can help teenagers counteract school fears and build stress resilience.
Breathing exercises are proven to have a calming effect on the nervous system; simply taking three slow, deep breaths triggers the body's relaxation response and quiets the "fight or flight" response. This is an exercise that a child or teen can do at a particularly stressful moment without anyone noticing.
Writing in a journal is another evidence-based tool for stress relief. Encourage your child to write a little bit every day about what they're experiencing, as a way of interpreting and making sense of their emotions.
Teen Self-Care:
Sleep and good nutrition go a long way toward alleviating teen anxiety. Without these basics, it's difficult to restore and maintain inner calm. Parents can help teens learn to practice self-care.
Highlight the positive:
Help your anxious child recall good times from the past, including fun times at school. In addition, highlight positive moments that are happening right now and will happen in the future.
A large body of research shows that meditation and yoga practices reduce stress. A review study at Johns Hopkins found that meditation is equally effective in treating symptoms of anxiety and depression as antidepressants.
Spending time with good friends:
Close friends can help teens deal with anxiety. Acceptance and support from friends are essential to a teen's well-being. Therefore, an authentic connection with a caring friend can alleviate anxiety in school.
The busy school-year schedule can keep the family apart. Everyone has someplace to be or something to do. So make a point of eating together at least one or two nights during the week. Moreover, turn off all devices while you're eating, so you can focus on the food and each other. As a result, meals become a time for each family member to share what's been going on in their day and their week.
Research has repeatedly proven that time outdoors reduces levels of stress, depression, and anxiety. When teens aren't in school, spending time hiking or at the beach can help relieve anxiety.
Finally, parents can ask their child or teen what would support them in transitioning back to school more easily. They might have very specific ideas about what would be helpful.
Maybe it's a new outfit they would feel especially confident in. Or having an after-school plan in place for the first day or two can help. That might be a relaxing family activity, or a get-together with a close friend.
In summary, many teens experience anxiety in school. However, for young people suffering from a teen anxiety disorder, professional help is essential.
European Medicines Agency - Human medicines - Verkazia
On 20 July 2017, the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP) adopted a positive opinion, recommending the granting of a marketing authorisation for the medicinal product Verkazia, intended for the treatment of severe vernal keratoconjunctivitis. Verkazia, which was designated as an orphan medicinal product on 6 April 2006, was reviewed under EMA's accelerated assessment programme. The applicant for this medicinal product is Santen Oy.
Verkazia will be available as 1 mg/ml eye drops. The active substance of Verkazia is ciclosporin, an immunosuppressant (ATC code: S01XA18) which blocks the release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and exerts an anti-inflammatory effect.
The benefits of Verkazia are its ability to improve ocular surface damage and reduce symptoms of severe vernal keratoconjunctivitis in children and adolescent patients. The most common side effects are eye pain (11%) and eye pruritus (9%) which usually occur at the time of instilling the eye drops.
"Treatment of severe vernal keratoconjunctivitis in children from 4 years of age and adolescents".
Treatment with Verkazia must be initiated by an ophthalmologist or a healthcare professional qualified in ophthalmology.
The Butler County Family YMCA recognizes the veterans living in Butler County and says thank you for your service! We partner with the VA for veteran and employee health.
PVC Blinds are a great protection against the cold, wind and rain and they can protect outdoor furniture as well.
Rope & Pulley … Fixed at the top by aluminium sail track. This drop blind can be manually rolled up and down using the rope and pulley; the rope loops around a bottom bar on the left and right of the blind and is then attached to a pulley on one side. Zips can also be added to these blinds to stop any movement down the sides and to create a ‘snug room’ effect.
BCS Track Awnings … With a wider channel/track, still with the gear operation system. These awnings are wonderful for keeping the weather out whilst keeping your view. Suitable for PVC and can be motorized.
Captive Awnings are 100% weatherproof and the perfect way of enclosing your patio. Can be gear operated, spring loaded or motorised.
All our PVC Blinds are fully welded with a high frequency welder, eliminating stitching deterioration and needle holes. All joins will be vertical to cater for expansion and contraction. Horizontal joins can be requested, but without warranty.
Complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS) is a severe and chronic nerve disease that can cause terrible pain and other symptoms. Formerly known as Reflex Sympathetic Dystrophy Syndrome or causalgia, it is a complicated condition as the name implies. Thought to be caused by a disorder of neurons and pain receptors, CRPS has been called one of the most painful conditions that can be suffered, one that unfortunately is not curable. Controlling pain is the main treatment for CRPS patients, something that can be done with the help of a pain doctor College Station who is familiar with the condition. As debilitating as it may be, pain specialists are using the best and most current methods possible to control symptoms for patients with CRPS.
CRPS is thought to occur from multiple causes including a deregulated central nervous system and autonomic nervous system, which results in nerves in the body sending pain messages even though there is no actual injury present. CRPS is also thought to possibly be due to an immune response in the body, causing the body to react to certain neurons called catecholamines; because of these negative reactions, neurons are put in a state of excitation and send incorrect messages. Malfunctioning neurons and receptors then act as though there is injury and then swelling, redness, heat, and more discomfort occurs in that area. It is a systemic disease that can affect any area of the body and has frequently been misdiagnosed as fibromyalgia.
The main and most significant symptom of CRPS is intense pain that can occur anywhere in the body at the site of an injury or where some other problem has set it off. Sensations can feel like severe burning and tingling, possibly with skin redness. Symptoms usually worsen, rather than improve, – and can just as suddenly stop. CRPS symptoms can progress to an extreme burning sensation, muscle spasms, joint stiffness, reduced hair growth at the site, and even changes in fingernail or toenail growth.
In its worst stages, the continued effects of CRPS can cause marked changes to the body such as advanced muscle atrophy, tendon contraction, permanent damage to the skin and bones in affected areas, and even cause osteoporosis. Because of such excruciating conditions, many sufferers develop psychological problems as well and CRPS can cause suicide.
Since there is no known cure for CRPS, symptom management is the main focus of a pain doctor College Station. Treatments are multi-focal, involving drug therapy, physical therapy, and psychotherapy combined. Anti-inflammatories, anti-depressants, and some anti-seizure medications can help to alleviate some of the physical discomfort. Other drugs frequently used to provide relief for CRPS include corticosteroids, topical analgesics, and a variety of narcotic drugs like morphine, codeine, oxycodone and other opioids.
Other therapies for CRPS that have been used with some success include spinal cord stimulators, intrathecal drug pumps, local anesthetic nerve blocks, temporary and permanent sympathectomy nerve blocks, and other means of preventing the transmission of these nerve impulses.
Ketamine anesthetic infusions have proven effective in some patients, as have topical applications of DMSO cream, a known analgesic that can also be combined with other analgesic medications that have proven effective for a patient and result in a stepped-up topical preparation that can contribute to the effectiveness of all the combined treatments. Psychotherapy, relaxation techniques, and hypnosis can provide some intervention as well.
Because it is such a difficult disease to manage, patients with complex regional pain syndrome need to find a pain doctor College Station with whom honest discussions can be held about symptom severity. Through the use of these and other methods, it is possible to get pain controlled so sufferers can regain a better quality of life.
Do you need to find a pain doctor in College Station to help with your pain problems? Call BCS Pain Clinic at (979) 764-7246 and find the professional pain management help that you need!
Windies wicket-keeper batsman feels the absence of big players like Chris Gayle, and Andre Russell has
Prof. Fahri Saatcioglu – World Summit on Ethics & Leadership in Sports
Prof. Fahri Saatcioglu
Professor for Molecular and Cell Biology, Department of Biosciences, University of Oslo, Norway
"The world urgently needs leaders that are equipped with the tools to guide our society to sustainability in an ethical and responsible manner. Sports is an arena where the necessary leadership qualities can be developed.
This is because sports is not only a form of competition/recreation/entertainment, but is also an invaluable arena for human values and leadership training.
Thus, sports, if utilized properly, can become a central tool to help develop leaders that are not only technically competent, but have the key soft qualities to integrate sustainability and ethical principles to the very DNA of our future."
Fahri Saatcioglu is professor at the Department of Biosciences at the University of Oslo, head of the Section for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, as well as researcher at the Division of Surgery and Cancer Medicine, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway.
He is also a visiting scientist at Harvard School of Public Health, Boston. His research focuses on basic molecular and cell biology of cancer cells, in particular prostate, ovarian and breast cancer, including translational research based on these findings. His laboratory has cloned and characterized a number of novel genes, which encode proteins that have a role in cancer development in vitro and in vivo.
The work of his laboratory has contributed significant new knowledge into androgen signaling, its interactions with other central signaling pathways, and its role in prostate cancer development. He is also interested in the biological effects and physiological mechanisms of evidence based traditional practices, in particular yoga and yogic breathing exercises, how they may affect health and wellness, and conducts research in these areas.
Professor for Molecular and Cell Biology
Address - Avenue des Courses 16 (B11) 1050 Brussels, Belgium
E-mail: office@wfeb.org
Website: http://ethicsinsports.ch/
To pursue and establish an indispensable ethical foundation of sports and leadership in a globalised world.
[PDF] iStent as a Solo Procedure for Glaucoma Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis - Free Download PDF
June 20, 2017 | Autor: Cindy Hutnik | Categoria: Multidisciplinary, PLoS one
iStent as a Solo Procedure for Glaucoma Patients: A Systematic Review and MetaAnalysis Monali S. Malvankar-Mehta1,2*, Yufeng Nancy Chen3, Yiannis Iordanous1, Wan Wendy Wang3, John Costella4, Cindy M. L. Hutnik1 1 Department of Ophthalmology, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, ON, Canada, 2 Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, ON, Canada, 3 Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, ON, Canada, 4 Allyn & Betty Taylor Library, Natural Sciences Centre, Western University, London, ON, Canada * [email protected]
OPEN ACCESS Citation: Malvankar-Mehta MS, Chen YN, Iordanous Y, Wang WW, Costella J, Hutnik CML (2015) iStent as a Solo Procedure for Glaucoma Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. PLoS ONE 10(5): e0128146. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146 Academic Editor: Louis R. Pasquale, Harvard Medical School, UNITED STATES Received: November 7, 2014 Accepted: April 22, 2015
Purpose To perform a systematic review and meta-analysis to evaluate and quantify the effect on post-operative intraocular pressure (IOP) and number of topical glaucoma medications, in patients receiving the iStent MIGS device as the solo procedure without concurrent cataract surgery.
Published: May 27, 2015 Copyright: © 2015 Malvankar-Mehta et al. This is an open access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original author and source are credited. Data Availability Statement: All relevant data are within the paper and its Supporting Information files. Funding: The authors have no support or funding to report. Competing Interests: The authors have declared that no competing interests exist.
Methods A systematic review was conducted by searching various databases between January 1, 2000, and June 30, 2014. Studies reporting up to a maximum follow-up period of 24 months were retrieved and screened using the EPPI-Reviewer 4 gateway. Percentage reduction in IOP (IOPR%), and mean reduction in topical glaucoma medications after surgery were computed. Meta-analysis was performed using STATA v. 13.0. The standardized mean difference (SMD) was calculated as the effect size for continuous scale outcomes. Heterogeneity was determined using the I2 statistics, Z-value, and χ2 statistics. Fixed-effect and randomeffect models were developed based on heterogeneity. Sub-group analysis was performed based on the number of iStents implanted and the follow-up period. The outcome measures were changes in the IOP and number of glaucoma medications.
PLOS ONE | DOI:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146 May 27, 2015
iStent as a Solo Procedure for Glaucoma Patients: A Meta-Analysis
Results The search strategy identified 105 records from published literature and 9 records from the grey literature. Five studies with 248 subjects were included for quantitative synthesis. A 22% IOP reduction (IOPR%) from baseline occurred at 18-months after one iStent implant, 30% at 6-months after two iStents implantations, and 40% at 6-months after implantation of three iStents. A mean reduction of 1.2 bottles per patient of topical glaucoma medications occurred at 18-months after one iStent implant, 1.45 bottles per patient at 6-months after two iStents, and one bottle of medication per patient was reduced at 6-months following placement of three iStents implants. Meta-analysis results showed a significant reduction in the IOP after one iStent (SMD = -1.68, 95% CI: [-2.7, -0.61]), two iStents (SMD = -1.88, 95% CI: [-2.2, -1.56]), and three iStents (SMD = -2, 95% CI: [-2.62, -1.38]) implantation. Results showed a significant drop in the topical glaucoma medications after one iStent (SMD = -2.11, CI: [-3.95, -0.27]), two iStent (SMD = -1.88, CI: [-2.20, -1.56]), and three iStents (SMD = -2.00, CI: [-2.62, -1.38]) implantation. The maximum reduction in IOP occurred at 12months (SMD = -2.21, CI: [-2.53, -1.88]) and a significant reduction in post-operative topical glaucoma medications occurred even after 18-months of iStent implantation (SMD = -0.71, CI: [-1.15, -0.26]).
Conclusion iStent implantation as a solo procedure without concurrent cataract extraction does lower IOP, and reduces the dependency on glaucoma medications. This effect seems to last at least 18 months.
Introduction Modern medicine has contributed to increased longevity. As the number of older adults explodes globally, implications will be experienced in all facets of life. In 2012, the over-60 population numbered 810 million, quadruple the size of this cohort in 1950, but not even half of the two billion population expected to be over-60 by 2050 [1]. As age is a major risk factor for the most common causes of visual loss, the number of adults with visual disabilities is anticipated to increase substantially. The fear of vision loss is ranked third after cancer and heart disease [2]. Currently it is estimated that 285 million people worldwide are visually disabled with 39 million [3] being totally blind. Visual impairment is a leading cause of age-related functional disability. In the United States, 3.6 million [4] and in Canada, 1 million [5] people suffer from severe visual impairment to complete blindness. By the age of 65, one in nine Canadians is known to experience irreversible vision loss and by the age of 75, one in four [5] are affected. Glaucoma is a leading cause of irreversible blindness [6], affecting an estimated 60.5 million people worldwide [2,7], 3 million in the U.S. [8,9], and 400,000 in Canada [6]. It has been estimated that in 2020, primary open-angle glaucoma (POAG), the most common form of glaucoma, will globally plague 80 million people [6,10]. The economic cost of POAG is large with the direct annual cost estimated at 2.86 billion in the U.S. [11] and 300 million in Canada [5]. Lowering the IOP is currently the only treatment known to delay the progression of glaucoma. In the traditional treatment paradigm, pharmacotherapy is the first line of treatment [12].
However, pharmacotherapy is not benign and has been well documented to have a number of significant challenges. Patient non-compliance [13–16], difficulty with administration [17,18], local irritation, and ocular surface toxicity [19–21] have been reported as causative of treatment failure. Systemic side effects have also been reported with topical administration [22,23]. Minimally invasive glaucoma surgery (MIGS) refers to a group of emerging procedures that manipulate the trabecular outflow pathways. According to Food and Drug Administration (FDA), a MIGS device is a type of IOP lowering device used to lower IOP using an outflow mechanism with either an ab interno or ab externo approach, associated with little or no scleral dissection and minimal or no conjunctival manipulation [24]. The iStent trabecular micro-bypass stent (Glaukos Corporation, Laguna Hills, CA) is an example of one of these MIGS devices [25,26]. The iStent is an implantable device made of titanium and coated with heparin that is inserted ab interno into Schlemm's canal [27]. It lowers IOP by providing a direct channel for aqueous outflow from the anterior chamber to collector channels [28,29]. It has garnered much attention as it is one of the first MIGS devices to achieve relatively widespread use with promising initial reports regarding efficacy and safety. [30–32]. Data also support its potential use as an adjunctive therapy at the time of cataract surgery for patients using multiple glaucoma medications [26,31,33–35]. A cost effective analysis has demonstrated a potentially lower cumulative cost for iStent implantation versus glaucoma medications over time in Canada [36]. Most studies examining the effect of iStent on patients with POAG have been small, nonrandomized, and often lacking appropriate control arms. These studies have a considerable variability in follow-up periods, measured outcomes, and definitions of surgical success. The purpose of the current systematic review is to analyze all available data on the iStent as a solo procedure without concurrent cataract surgery as well as to summarize and quantify the effect it has on both intraocular pressure and use of topical glaucoma medications, for patients with POAG.
Methods Literature search strategy The search strategy was implemented using the following databases: MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations, MEDLINE Daily and MEDLINE (Ovid), EMBASE (Ovid), BIOSIS Previews (Thomson-Reuters), CINAHL (EBSCO), PubMed, Health Economic Evaluations Database (HEED), Web of Science (Thomson-Reuters) and the Cochrane Library (Wiley). OVID AutoAlerts for MEDLINE and EMBASE were set up to send monthly updates with regard to any relevant new literature. Monthly updates were also performed on HEED, PubMed and Cochrane Library databases. We included any relevant articles published between January 1, 2000 and June 30, 2014. Search strategies were constructed, with the assistance of an information specialist, utilizing database specific subject headings and keywords for "iStent", and "glaucoma". Each strategy was modified to complement the specific database and platform. The search strategies for MEDLINE and EMBASE are included in the supplementary material (S2 File). In this research, we adhered to the Preferred Items for Systematic Reviews and MetaAnalyses (PRISMA) guidelines (Fig 1 and S1 File) [37]. Grey literature between January 1, 2000 and June 30, 2014 was identified by searching ProQuest Dissertations and Theses, the Canadian Health Research Collection (Ebrary), as well as any available meeting abstracts of the European Society of Ophthalmology (ESO), Canadian Ophthalmology Society (COS), Association for Research in Vision and Ophthalmology (ARVO), and American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO). The Conference Proceedings
Fig 1. PRISMA Flow Diagram for iStent as a Solo Procedure for Patients with Glaucoma. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.g001
Citation Index was also included as part of the Web of Science search. Google and other Internet search engines were also used to search for additional web-based materials and information. These searches were supplemented by hand searching the bibliographies of all the included studies, and through contacts with appropriate experts and agencies.
Inclusion and exclusion criteria Economic studies, comparative studies, observational studies, cohort studies, case series, randomized control trials, clinical trials, multi-center studies, meta-analyses, and systematic reviews were included. Review articles, editorials, opinions, pilot studies, surveys, and case reports were excluded. Studies on human subjects, on adults 18 years and older with mild to moderate glaucoma, and sample size of 20 or more were included. Studies considering complications or explicitly discussing post-operative outcomes were included. Only studies published in English language were included. There was no restriction placed on country in which the study was done or the follow-up period. All records identified through the literature search process were imported to EPPI Reviewer 4.0 (by EPPI-Centre, Social Science Research Unit, the Institute of Education, the University of London, UK). Duplicates were then removed within EPPI Reviewer and the remaining records proceeded on to the screening stages. The screening process involved 3 levels. Titles of the included records were screened in Level 1, abstracts were screened in Level 2, and full text of the included records was screened in Level 3 (S3 File). Two reviewers independently screened the studies at each level. At the end of each level of screening, agreements and disagreements were calculated using Cohen's kappa (κ) coefficient. Disagreements were resolved by consensus and if consensus was not reached then a third reviewer intervened to resolve the disagreements.
Quality assessment All included articles were scored for quality using the Downs and Black checklist [38]. Total five articles were included, one article was determined to be of high quality [39], one of medium quality [40] while three were considered of poor quality [30,32,41]. A quality check was performed to ensure completeness of our methodology. Due to limited evidence none of the lesser quality articles were excluded from the analysis.
Data extraction The following data were abstracted from each article: author name, year of publication, study design, study location, number of iStents implanted, follow-up in months, sample size, patients demographic characteristics, baseline intraocular pressure (IOP), number of pre-operative glaucoma medications, pre-operative best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), other baseline characteristics such as cup to disc ratio, corneal thickness, visual disability score, vision quality of life (QOL) score, and post-operative characteristics including IOP, total number of topical glaucoma medications, compliance to treatment, percentage of patients with 20/40 or better visual acuity, percentage of patients off-medication, percentage of patients with IOP  18 mmHg, list of reported complications and rates of each complication. Data were extracted by one reviewer, while a second reviewer examined all extracted data. A third reviewer intervened if consensus was not reached.
Statistical analysis Meta-analysis was completed using STATA v. 13.0 (STATA Corporation, College Station, TX). The main outcomes of interest were the mean and standard deviation (SD) of pre- and postoperative IOP as well as total number of topical glaucoma medications. In studies, where SD was not reported, data about the range, confidence interval, standard error, and p-value was obtained and then converted to SD value. The extracted mean and standard error of the IOP at baseline and end point were used to compute the mean IOP reduction (IOPR), percentage of IOP reduction (IOPR%), within group standard error (SEIOPR), and standard error of
percentage of IOP reduction (SEIOPR%) using the equations below [42]: IOPR ¼ IOPbaseline  IOPendpoint IOPR% ¼
SEIOPR ¼
IOPR IOPbaseline
qffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffiffi 2 2 SEbaseline þ SEendpoint
SEIOPR% ¼
SEIOPR IOPbaseline
Standard deviation percentage of IOP reduction (SDIOPR%) was then calculated by the forpffiffiffi mula SDIOPR% ¼ SEIOPR%  n (Table 1). For continuous scale outcomes such as mean values, standardized mean difference (SMD) was calculated as the treatment effect or effect size. SMD was chosen as the treatment effect since it is a mean difference standardized across all studies. To compute SMD for each study, the difference between the mean pre- and post-operative values for each outcome measure (i.e. IOP, number of glaucoma medications) was divided by the SD for that same outcome measure. Weights were assigned to each SMD according to the inverse of its variance and then average was computed. SMD for each study was then aggregated using the fixed or random-effect model based on the presence of heterogeneity to estimate the summary effect. To test heterogeneity, I2statistics, Z-value, and χ2 statistics were computed. An I2 value of less than 50% implies low heterogeneity, and in these cases, a fixed-effect model was computed. An I2statistics of 50% or more represents high heterogeneity, and in these cases a random-effect model was calculated. Additionally, a high Z-value, a low p-value (< 0.01) and a large χ2 value implies significant heterogeneity and therefore, a random-effect model using DerSimonian and Laird methods was computed. Forest plots were also generated for each case. Funnel plots were generated to check publication bias. Sub-group analysis was performed to ascertain the influence of the number of iStents implanted and the follow-up period on post-operative IOP and number of topical glaucoma medications. Causes of heterogeneity were also explored.
Results Search results The search strategy identified 105 records, including 19 from MEDLINE, 29 from EMBASE, 23 from CINAHL, 25 from ISI Web of Science, and 9 from Cochrane Library databases. An additional 9 records were found by grey literature search. Sixty-eight articles remained after removal of duplicates. After screening, a total of 25 records remained. After manually reviewing the 25 full-text articles, five studies (248 subjects) met our inclusion/exclusion criteria and were included for qualitative and quantitative synthesis. Fig 1 shows the PRISMA Flow diagram, outline the screening process.
Study characteristics Study characteristics and results are summarized in Tables 1 and 2. Table 1 lists the characteristics of the included studies, as well as the following main outcomes: pre-operative versus postoperative intraocular pressure (IOP), percentage of IOP reduction (IOPR%), and standard
Table 1. Reported pre- and post-operative intraocular pressure in studies included in meta-analysis. Author (Year)
Number of iStent
Baseline IOP (Mean)
Baseline IOP (SD)
Outcome IOP (Mean)
Outcome IOP (SD)
IOPR %
SD_IOPR %
Ahmed (2012) [40]
Buznego (2009)[32]
Charters (2013)[30]
Singh (2012)[41]
France, Germany, Italy, Republic of Armenia, Spain
Voskanyan (2014)[39]
Weighted mean reduction in IOPR% following two iStents implantation at 6-months: 30. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.t001
error of percentage of IOP reduction (SEIOPR%). Table 2 lists pre-operative versus post-operative number of glaucoma medications and mean reduction in medications. The number of iStents inserted varied. One study [40] compared the impact of implanting one versus two versus three iStents on post-operative IOP and number of glaucoma medications.
Table 2. Reported pre- and post-operative topical glaucoma medications in studies included in meta-analysis. Author (Year)
Baseline Medications (Mean)
Baseline Medications (SD)
Outcome Medications (Mean)
Outcome Medications (SD)
Mean Reduction in Total Medications
Ahmed (2012)
Weighted mean reduction in medications following two iStents implantation at 6-months: 1.45. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.t002
Two studies examined the insertion of two iStents. Two studies investigated the impact of one iStent on post-operative IOP and the number of medications. The follow-up periods for each study also varied significantly. One study reported six month follow-up period [40]. Two studies reported data up to 12-months [39,41] and one study reported an 18-months follow-up period [32]. Table 3 lists data on post-operative characteristics of included studies such as complications, complication rates, percentage of patients with good vision, reduced number of medications, and controlled IOP. Table 3. Reported post-operative characteristics and complications of studies included in meta-analysis. Author (Year)
Post-operative Characteristics Patients with 20/40 or better VA (%)
Patients offmedications (%)
Patients with IOP  18 mmHg (%)
Patients with IOP  18 mmHg without medications (%)
List of complications reported(rate of complication in %)
Ahmed (2012)[40]
hypotony (3), hyphema (3)
Most patients were off medication
iStent malposition (14.63), iStent replacement (4.87), iStent reposition (2.44)
Voskanyan (2014) [39]
Elevated IOP (10.1), iStent obstruction (3), iStent malposition (1), Intraocular inflammation (1), Subconjunctival hemorrhage (1), iStent not visible upon gonioscopy (13.1), Goniosynechiae (1), Iris synechiae (1), iStent malposition (1), Allergic reaction to medications (1), Posterior capsular opacification (2)
A blank indicates that information has not been provided in that study. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.t003
Fig 2. Funnel plot for studies examining pre- and post-operative intraocular pressure (IOP) by follow-up (months). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.g002
Publication bias Visual inspection of funnel plots by follow-up and number of iStents implanted for both preand post-operative IOP (Figs 2 and 3) and topical glaucoma medications (Figs 4 and 5) did not reveal any asymmetry.
Main outcomes The main outcome of the study is to analyze and quantify the effect of iStent on both intraocular pressure and use of topical glaucoma medications.
Effect on intraocular pressure From Table 1, a 22% reduction in IOP (IOPR%) occurred at 18-months following an iStent implantation [32]. The weighted mean IOPR% after two iStents implantation at 6-months followup was computed to be 30%, where weights were determined by the respective study sample
Fig 3. Funnel plot for studies examining pre- and post-operative IOP by number of iStents inserted. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.g003
sizes [40,41]. A 41% reduction in IOP occurred at 6-months following the implantation of three iStents [40]. Fig 6 summarizes the results for the outcome measure, IOP by the number of iStents implanted. Five studies (248 subjects) looked into the impact on IOP due to one or more iStents implanted. All the studies showed a decrease in post-operative IOP. Heterogeneity between studies that investigated the impact of one iStent (I2 = 96.3%) and two iStents (I2 = 97.7%) was significantly high. In studies examining the impact of one iStent (SMD = -1.95, CI: [-3.41, -0.49]), two iStents (SMD = -3.08, CI: [-6.9, 0.74]), and three iStents (SMD = -4.26, CI: [-5.18, -3.33]), IOP reduced significantly after one iStent and three iStents implantation. However, a non-significant reduction in IOP occurred after implantation of two iStents. It should be noted that there were only two studies evaluating the impact of two iStents and one study evaluating the impact of three iStents. Thus, more studies are required to make concrete conclusions. Fig 7 summarizes the results for the IOP outcome measure by the follow-up (months) for studies implanting one iStent, two iStents, and three iStents. There were 3 studies with a follow-up of less than 6-months to 6-months, 2 studies with 12-months follow-up, and a study with 18-months of follow-up. There was significant heterogeneity between studies examining
Fig 4. Funnel plot for studies examining pre- and post-operative number of medications by follow-up (months). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.g004
less than 6-months to 6-months follow-up (I2 = 0.95.7%) and follow-up of 12-months (I2 = 96.8%). Fig 7 suggests that the maximum reduction in IOP occurred at less than 6 to 6-months (SMD = -2.84, CI: [-4.38, -1.29]). Additionally, significant reduction in IOP occurred at 12-months (SMD = -2.06, CI: [-3.8, -0.31]) after iStent implantation. Another study by Buznego [32] with 18-months follow-up showed a significant decrease in IOP levels (SMD = -0.70, CI: [-1.14, -0.25]). This suggests that after iStent implantation, over a period of time, effect on IOP decreases.
Effect on topical glaucoma medication use From Table 2, a mean reduction of 1.2 bottles per patient of topical glaucoma medications occurred at 18-months after an iStent implantation [32]. The weighted mean reduction in topical glaucoma medications after two iStents implantation at 6-months follow-up was computed to be 1.45 [40,41]. One bottle of medication per patient was reduced at 6-months following three iStents implantation [40].
Fig 5. Funnel plot for studies examining pre- and post-operative number of medications by number of iStents inserted. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.g005
Fig 8 illustrates a forest plot of SMD of pre- and post-operative number of medications with respect to number of iStents inserted. Studies examining the impact of one iStent showed a significant drop in the post-operative number of glaucoma medications (SMD = -1.68, CI: [-2.74, -0.61]) with a significant (p = 0.0) amount of between study heterogeneity (I2 = 93.6%). For studies investigating effect of two iStents had non-significant (p = 0.944) heterogeneity between studies (I2 = 0.0%) and random-effect computations indicated significant reduction in the number of glaucoma medications post-surgery (SMD = -1.98, CI:[-2.39, -1.57]). There was a single study assessing the impact of three iStents and it showed a significant reduction in the number of glaucoma medications (SMD = -2.00, CI:[-2.62, -1.38]) compared to one or two iStents. However, more studies examining the impact of two to three iStents are required to make solid conclusions. Fig 9 shows a forest plot for SMD of pre- and post-operative number of medications by follow-up (months) for studies performing iStent in patients with glaucoma. There were 2 studies considering follow-up of 6 to less than 6-months, 2 studies inspecting 12-months follow-up, and a study with 18-months follow-up. Heterogeneity between studies examining follow-up of 6 to less than 6-months (I2 = 0.0%), and 12-months follow-up (I2 = 11.9%) was used to
Fig 6. Forest plot for pre- and post-operative IOP by number of iStents inserted. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.g006
determine the random-effect or fixed-effect computations. Results showed significant reduction in post-operative number of medications in 6 to less than 6-months follow-up (SMD = -1.83, CI: [-2.23, -1.43]), 12-months follow-up (SMD = -2.21, CI: [-2.53, -1.88]), and even after 18-months of iStent implantation (SMD = -0.71, CI: [-1.15, -0.26]).
Discussion A systematic review of the literature by searching various bibliographic databases as well as the grey literature was performed to examine the effect of iStent implantation as a solo procedure without concurrent cataract extraction in patients with POAG. The principal outcome measures of change in the intraocular pressure (IOP) and number of topical medications were reported. Five studies (248 subjects) were included for qualitative and quantitative synthesis. Characteristics of the included studies such as study design, study population, study location,
Fig 7. Forest plot for pre- and post-operative IOP by follow-up (months). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.g007
sample size, pre- and post-operative IOP and the number of medications, follow-up period, and number of iStent implanted were summarized. Percentage reduction in IOP and mean reduction in topical glaucoma medications were also computed. A 22% IOP reduction (IOPR%) from baseline occurred at 18-months after one iStent implant, 30% at 6-months after two iStents implantations, and 41% at 6-months after implantation of three iStents. A mean reduction of 1.2 bottles per patient of topical glaucoma medications occurred at 18-months after an iStent implant, 1.45 bottles per patient at 6-months after two iStents implant, and a bottle of medication per patient was reduced at 6-months following three iStents implant. Meta-analysis results were positive and promising by demonstrating significant improvement in post-operative IOP and reduction in number of topical glaucoma medications after iStent surgery. A significant strength of this analysis stems from the fact that all the included studies had coherent results of improvement in IOP as well the number of topical glaucoma medications due to iStent surgery.
Fig 8. Forest plot for pre- and post-operative number of medications by number of iStents inserted. doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.g008
There was a considerable amount of heterogeneity among three studies examining one iStent and two studies investigating two iStent implantations. Random-effect computations showed significantly controlled and lowered IOP due to both one iStent and two iStents. Further, just one study [40] reported improvement in IOP after three iStents and showed that the improvement in IOP correlated with the number of iStents implanted. More studies are needed to fully understand this relationship. Substantial heterogeneity between the studies was shown which could reflect different study populations, demographics, inclusion/exclusion criteria, study location, iStents implantation technique, surgeon's experience, available facilities to perform iStent surgery, rates of complications, year the surgeries were performed, year the study was conducted as well as attention to placement related to collector channel identification. The results of this quantitative synthesis of the currently available literature suggest that more studies need to be reported to better understand the optimal role of the iStent in IOP management and topical glaucoma medication management.
Fig 9. Forest plot for pre- and post-operative number of medications by follow-up (months). doi:10.1371/journal.pone.0128146.g009
The study limitations for meta-analyses such as this are necessary before inferences may be considered. First, it is necessary to consider the quality of the included studies. In this metaanalysis the Downs and Black checklist [38] was employed. This revealed a significant variation in quality scoring with high-, medium-, and poor-quality studies having been reported. Nevertheless, as only five studies were available for analysis, all were included, irrespective of their quality. This is a recognized, but necessary, limitation due to the few clinical studies currently available. Second, meta-analysis of observational studies is influenced by inherent biases in the included articles [43]. For example, a multitude of other factors such as level of education, ethnicity, income status, socioeconomic status, previous ocular and non-ocular surgeries, family history, other ocular and non-ocular diseases, pre-operative and post-operative medications, number of medications and comorbidities (e.g., high blood pressure, diabetes, stroke, heart conditions, etc.) could influence the estimates in the original studies. Potential bias related to industry sponsorship of a study also exists, as well as methods of patient selection. Variations in surgical technique may be a major factor as attention to placement near collector channels is known to increase the effect [39].
The results of this meta-analysis showed improvement in IOP and reduction in the number of topical glaucoma medications after iStent implantation. Although the data were limited, data suggest that the IOP decrease correlates with the number of iStents implanted. However the heterogeneity in the current literature suggests that additional research is warranted to best understand how to maximize the utility of iStent in the management of glaucoma patients. A notable lack of published research on rates of early and late post-operative complications suggests more research is also needed in this area. Similarly almost no current literature exists regarding the identification of factors that may be predictive of success such as previous ocular and non-ocular surgeries, family history, other ocular and non-ocular diseases, pre-operative and post-operative medications, number of medications and comorbidities as well as consistency in the stage of the disease. In conclusion, this systematic review and meta-analysis has shown that the iStent as a solo procedure without concurrent cataract surgery does lower IOP and reduces the dependency on glaucoma medications. The effectiveness data in studies such as this are necessary to conduct cost-effectiveness (CE) and cost-utility (CU) analyses. As health care has evolved in the last decade into a much greater cost-effective model, data such as these would be useful for governmental agencies, clinicians, hospital administrators, payers, and policy-makers to better understand and define the position of newer technologies in existing treatment paradigms. The study also highlights the challenges that exist when devices are brought to market without large, prospective randomized trials with extended follow-up periods. It is only through a synthesis of data from smaller studies by early adopters that more widespread utilization and implementation by health care systems may be possible.
Supporting Information S1 PRISMA Checklist. PRISMA 2009 Checklist. (DOC) S1 File. Search strategy for EMBASE and MEDLINE. (DOCX) S2 File. Level 1, 2, and 3 screening questions. (DOCX)
Author Contributions Conceived and designed the experiments: MSMM YI CMLH. Performed the experiments: YNC WWW JC. Analyzed the data: MSMM. Contributed reagents/materials/analysis tools: MSMM. Wrote the paper: MSMM YNC.
International Federation on Ageing (2013) The High Cost of Low Vision: The Evidence on Ageing and the Loss of Sight. Executive Summary: International Federation on Ageing.
Glaucoma Research Foundation (2013) Glaucoma Facts and Stats.
WHO Media Centre (2013) Visual impairment and blindness. World Health Organization.
American Academy of Ophthalmology (AAO) (2011) Eye Health Statistics American Academy of Ophthalmology.
The National Coalition for Vision Health (2010) Vision Loss in Canada 2011.
Glaucoma Research Society of Canada Quick Facts.
Quigley HA, Broman AT (2006) The number of people with glaucoma worldwide in 2010 and 2020. British Journal of Ophthalmology 90: 262–267. PMID: 16488940
Bates DM, Watts DG (1988) Nonlinear regression: iterative estimation and linear approximations: Wiley Online Library.
Motulsky H (2004) Fitting Models to Biological Data Using Linear and Nonlinear Regression: A Practical Guide to Curve Fitting: A Practical Guide to Curve Fitting: Oxford University Press.
Ratkowsky DA, Giles DEA (1990) Handbook of nonlinear regression models: Marcel Dekker New York.
Foundation BrightFocus (2013) Glaucoma Facts and Statistics.
Fingeret M (1998) Glaucoma medications, glaucoma therapy, and the evolving paradigm. Journal of the American Optometric Association 69: 115–121. PMID: 9549260
Kass MA, Gordon M, Morley RE Jr, Meltzer DW, Goldberg JJ (1987) Compliance with topical timolol treatment. American journal of ophthalmology 103: 188. PMID: 3812621
Robin AL, Novack GD, Covert DW, Crockett RS, Marcic TS (2007) Adherence in glaucoma: objective measurements of once-daily and adjunctive medication use. American journal of ophthalmology 144: 533–540. e532. PMID: 17686450
Okeke CO, Quigley HA, Jampel HD, Ying G-S, Plyler RJ, Yuzhen J, et al. (2009) Adherence with topical glaucoma medication monitored electronically: the Travatan Dosing Aid Study. Ophthalmology 116: 191–199. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2008.09.004 PMID: 19084273
Tsai JC (2009) A comprehensive perspective on patient adherence to topical glaucoma therapy. Ophthalmology 116: S30–S36. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2009.06.024 PMID: 19837258
Stone JL, Robin AL, Novack GD, Covert DW, Cagle GD (2009) An objective evaluation of eyedrop instillation in patients with glaucoma. Archives of ophthalmology 127: 732. doi: 10.1001/archophthalmol. 2009.96 PMID: 19506189
Kholdebarin R, Campbell RJ, Jin Y-P, Buys YM (2008) Multicenter study of compliance and drop administration in glaucoma. Canadian Journal of Ophthalmology/Journal Canadien d'Ophtalmologie 43: 454–461. doi: 10.1139/i08-076 PMID: 18711461
Baudouin C, Liang H, Hamard P, Riancho L, Creuzot-Garcher C, Warnet JM, et al. (2008) The ocular surface of glaucoma patients treated over the long term expresses inflammatory markers related to both T-helper 1 and T-helper 2 pathways. Ophthalmology 115: 109–115. PMID: 17532048
Ammar DA, Noecker RJ, Kahook MY (2011) Effects of benzalkonium chloride-and polyquad-preserved combination glaucoma medications on cultured human ocular surface cells. Advances in therapy 28: 501–510. doi: 10.1007/s12325-011-0029-x PMID: 21603985
Leung EW, Medeiros FA, Weinreb RN (2008) Prevalence of ocular surface disease in glaucoma patients. Journal of glaucoma 17: 350–355. doi: 10.1097/IJG.0b013e31815c5f4f PMID: 18703943
Everitt DE, Avorn J (1990) Systemic effects of medications used to treat glaucoma. Annals of internal medicine 112: 120–125. PMID: 1967209
Muller ME, Van der Velde N, Krulder JWM, Van der Cammen TJM (2006) Lesson of the week: Syncope and falls due to timolol eye drops. BMJ: British Medical Journal 332: 960. PMID: 16627515
Center for Devices and Radiological Health (2015) Premarket Studies of Implantable Minimally Invasive Glaucoma Surgical (MIGS) Devices.
Vandewalle E, Zeyen T, Stalmans I (2009) The iStent trabecular micro-bypass stent: a case series. Bulletin de la Societe Belge d Ophtalmologie 311: 23. PMID: 19621551
Saheb H, Ahmed IIK (2012) Micro-invasive glaucoma surgery: current perspectives and future directions. Current Opinion in Ophthalmology 23: 96–104. doi: 10.1097/ICU.0b013e32834ff1e7 PMID: 22249233
Nichamin LD (2009) Glaukos iStent trabecular micro-bypass. Middle East African journal of ophthalmology 16: 138. doi: 10.4103/0974-9233.56227 PMID: 20142980
Francis BA, Singh K, Lin SC, Hodapp E, Jampel HD, Samples JR, et al. (2011) Novel glaucoma procedures: a report by the American Academy of Ophthalmology. Ophthalmology 118: 1466–1480. doi: 10. 1016/j.ophtha.2011.03.028 PMID: 21724045
Spiegel D, Wetzel W, Haffner DS, Hill RA (2007) Initial clinical experience with the trabecular micro-bypass stent in patients with glaucoma. Advances in therapy 24: 161–170. PMID: 17526473
Charters L. (2013) MIGS with stents may benefit OAG. Ophthalmology Times. San Francisco: Advanstar Communications Inc. pp. 1. doi: 10.1186/1687-9856-2013-1 PMID: 23351530
Buchacra O, Duch S, Milla E, Stirbu O (2011) One-year analysis of the iStent trabecular microbypass in secondary glaucoma. Clinical ophthalmology (Auckland, NZ) 5: 321. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S15025 PMID: 21468340
Buznego C (2008) Trabecular micro-bypass stent for glaucoma. Tech Ophthalmol 6: 114–118.
Samuelson TW, Katz LJ, Wells JM, Duh Y-J, Giamporcaro JE (2011) Randomized evaluation of the trabecular micro-bypass stent with phacoemulsification in patients with glaucoma and cataract. Ophthalmology 118: 459–467. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2010.07.007 PMID: 20828829
Fea AM (2010) Phacoemulsification versus phacoemulsification with micro-bypass stent implantation in primary open-angle glaucoma: randomized double-masked clinical trial. Journal of Cataract & Refractive Surgery 36: 407–412.
Spiegel D, Kobuch K (2002) Trabecular meshwork bypass tube shunt: initial case series. British journal of ophthalmology 86: 1228–1231. PMID: 12386074
Iordanous Y, Kent JS, Hutnik CM, Malvankar-Mehta MS (2013) Projected Cost Comparison of Trabectome, iStent, and Endoscopic Cyclophotocoagulation Versus Glaucoma Medication in the Ontario Health Insurance Plan. Journal of glaucoma.
Moher D, Liberati A, Tetzlaff J, Altman DG (2009) Preferred reporting items for systematic reviews and meta-analyses: the PRISMA statement. Annals of internal medicine 151: 264–269. PMID: 19622511
Downs SH, Black N (1998) The feasibility of creating a checklist for the assessment of the methodological quality both of randomised and non-randomised studies of health care interventions. Journal of epidemiology and community health 52: 377–384. PMID: 9764259
Voskanyan L, Garcia-Feijoo J, Belda JI, Fea A, Junemann A, Baudouin C (2014) Prospective, Unmasked Evaluation of the iStent Inject System for Open-Angle Glaucoma: Synergy Trial. Advances in therapy 31: 189–201. doi: 10.1007/s12325-014-0095-y PMID: 24452726
Ahmed SH, Voskanyan L (2012) Prospective, Randomized MIGS Study of One, Two or Three Trabecular Micro- Bypass Stents and Travoprost in Open-Angle Glaucoma. European Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgeons. Milan, Italy. doi: 10.1016/j.jcrs.2012.03.006 PMID: 22541829
Singh H. GS (2012) iStent glaucoma device: experience at CHUM. European Glaucoma Society Congress. Copenhagen.
Zhang W, Po ALW, Dua H, Azuara-Blanco A (2001) Meta-analysis of randomised controlled trials comparing latanoprost with timolol in the treatment of patients with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. British journal of ophthalmology 85: 983–990. PMID: 11466259
Egger M, Smith GD, Schneider M, Minder C (1997) Bias in meta-analysis detected by a simple, graphical test. Bmj 315: 629–634. PMID: 9310563
Relatórios "iStent as a Solo Procedure for Glaucoma Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis "
Download "iStent as a Solo Procedure for Glaucoma Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis "
Compartilhar e Incorporar "iStent as a Solo Procedure for Glaucoma Patients: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis "
Uses and benefitsSide effectsHow to useHow drug worksSafety adviceMissed doseAll substitutesQuick tipsFact boxInteraction with drugsPatient concernsUser feedbackFAQs
We are
Legitscript Certified
Click to Know More
Author Details
Written By
Dr. Sakshi Sharma
BDS
Reviewed By
Dr. Ashish Ranjan
MD (Pharmacology), MBBS
Last updated
30 Oct 2022 | 10:52 PM (IST)
We provide you with authentic, trustworthy and revelant information
Want to know more
Have issue with the content?
Report Problem
Forcan 200 Tablet
Prescription Required
Manufacturer/ Marketer
Cipla Ltd
SALT COMPOSITION
Fluconazole (200mg)
Storage
Store below 30°C
Click here to view all substitutes
1
2
3
4
5
Product introduction
Forcan 200 Tablet is used to treat fungal infections of the mouth, throat, vagina, and other parts of the body including fingernails and toenails. It kills fungi by destroying the fungal cell membrane thereby stopping the growth of fungi.
Forcan 200 Tablet should be taken in the dose and duration as prescribed by your doctor. It should be swallowed whole and can be taken with or without food. The dosage and length of treatment will depend on the condition you are being treated for. Sometimes this will be in cycles of use and non-use. To get the most benefit, take this medicine at evenly spaced times and continue using it until your prescription is finished, even if your symptoms disappear after a few days. If you stop treatment too early, the infection may return and if you miss doses you can increase your risk of infections that are resistant to further treatment. Tell your doctor if the infection does not get better or if it gets worse. Avoid taking antacid treatments within one hour before or two hours after you take it.
The most common side effects of this medicine include stomach pain, headache, and nausea. You could ask your doctor about ways of preventing or reducing these effects. Stop taking medicine and inform your doctor if you notice signs of an allergic reaction such as rash, swelling of the lips, throat, or face, swallowing or breathing problems, dizziness, and nausea.
Do not take Forcan 200 Tablet if you are pregnant unless your doctor has told you to. Inform your doctor if you have a history of heart failure, a weak immune system (including HIV/AIDS), kidney problems, or liver problems such as yellow skin (jaundice). This medicine may not be suitable for you. If your course of treatment is for more than a month, your doctor may monitor your liver function. This medicine may make you dizzy so do not drive or operate machines until it is safe.
Uses of Forcan Tablet
Treatment of Fungal infections
Benefits of Forcan Tablet
In Treatment of Fungal infections
Forcan 200 Tablet is an antifungal medicine. It works by killing and stopping the growth of fungi that causes the infection. It helps treat infections of the mouth, throat, vagina, and other parts of the body.
The dose and duration of treatment will depend on what you are being treated for. Make sure you complete the full course of treatment. This will ensure that the infection is completely cured and prevent it from returning.
Side effects of Forcan Tablet
Most side effects do not require any medical attention and disappear as your body adjusts to the medicine. Consult your doctor if they persist or if you’re worried about them
Common side effects of Forcan
Headache
Nausea
Stomach pain
How to use Forcan Tablet
Take this medicine in the dose and duration as advised by your doctor. Swallow it as a whole. Do not chew, crush or break it. Forcan 200 Tablet may be taken with or without food, but it is better to take it at a fixed time.
How Forcan Tablet works
Forcan 200 Tablet is an antifungal medication. It kills and stops the growth of the fungi by destroying its cell membrane, thereby treating your skin infection.
Safety advice
Alcohol
CAUTION
Caution is advised when consuming alcohol with Forcan 200 Tablet. Please consult your doctor.
Pregnancy
CONSULT YOUR DOCTOR
Forcan 200 Tablet is unsafe to use during pregnancy as there is definite evidence of risk to the developing baby. However, the doctor may rarely prescribe it in some life-threatening situations if the benefits are more than the potential risks. Please consult your doctor.
Breast feeding
SAFE IF PRESCRIBED
Forcan 200 Tablet is safe to use during breastfeeding. Human studies suggest that the drug does not pass into the breastmilk in a significant amount and is not harmful to the baby.
Driving
UNSAFE
Forcan 200 Tablet may cause side effects which could affect your ability to drive.
Forcan 200 Tablet may cause dizziness or seizures. This may affect your ability to drive.
Kidney
UNSAFE
Forcan 200 Tablet is probably unsafe to use in patients with kidney disease and should be avoided. Please consult your doctor.
Caution to be advised in patients with impaired renal function.
Liver
CAUTION
Forcan 200 Tablet should be used with caution in patients with liver disease. Dose adjustment of Forcan 200 Tablet may be needed. Please consult your doctor.
What if you forget to take Forcan Tablet?
If you miss a dose of Forcan 200 Tablet, take it as soon as possible. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and go back to your regular schedule. Do not double the dose.
All substitutes
For informational purposes only. Consult a doctor before taking any medicines.
Forcan 200 Tablet
₹23.35/Tablet
AF 200 Tablet
Systopic Laboratories Pvt Ltd
₹14.45/tablet
38% cheaper
Fungicip 200 Tablet
Cipla Ltd
₹16/tablet
31% cheaper
Oflu 200mg Tablet
Orange Biotech Pvt Ltd
₹19/tablet
19% cheaper
Futol 200mg Tablet
Carezone Healthcare
₹19/tablet
19% cheaper
Flualma 200 Tablet
Almatica Pharmaceuticals Private Limited
₹20.58/tablet
12% cheaper
View all substitutes
Quick tips
Your doctor has prescribed Forcan 200 Tablet to cure your infection and improve symptoms.
Do not skip any doses and finish the full course of treatment even if you feel better.
Use a reliable method of contraception to prevent pregnancy while taking this medicine.
Your doctor may check your liver function before starting treatment and regularly thereafter. Inform your doctor if you notice yellowing of eyes or skin, dark urine, or stomach pain.
Inform your doctor if you develop severe skin rash like blistering of the skin along with fever.
Fact Box
Chemical Class
Azole derivatives {Imidazoles}
Habit Forming
No
Therapeutic Class
ANTI INFECTIVES
Action Class
Fungal ergosterol synthesis inhibitor
Interaction with drugs
Taking Forcan with any of the following medicines can modify the effect of either of them and cause some undesirable side effects
Alfuzosin
Brand(s): Efzu, Alfuzee, Alfuflo
Life-threatening
Amisulpride
Brand(s): Stozen, Sulpigold, Amisulide
Life-threatening
Aripiprazole
Brand(s): Arifril, Biozol, Elrip
Life-threatening
Chlorpromazine
Brand(s): Karzine
Life-threatening
View all interactions
Patient concerns
Can I get Forcan C tablet and candid b over the counter in USA
Dr. Banashree Majumdar
Dermatology
That you have to check online dear as they have different regulations than us
MORE
Medicine for fungal infections.
Dr. Atul Jain
Dermatology
There is hundred type of fungal infectionFrom which you sufferBetter visit clinic for proper examination
MORE
Fungal infections on body & face
Dr. Atula Gupta
Dermatology
Cap. Itraconazole (Itrasys/ Canditral) 100mg twice daily for 2 weeks.Sertacide Cream for application twice daily for 1 month.Send pictures for better diagnosis and treatment
MORE
How to treat fungal infections
Dr. Atula Gupta
Dermatology
Stop all other applications. Cap. Itraconazole (Itrasys/ Canditral) 100mg twice daily for 2 weeks. Sertacide Cream for application twice daily for 1 month.Tab. Fexova 180 mg (if required in case of itching) Test ? Blood sugar ( Fasting & PP) The treatment has to be complete otherwise it will be recur.
MORE
Fungal infections on thigh ittching
Dr. Atul Jain
Dermatology
Onabet cream twice a day meanwhile visit skin specialist for proper examination and treatment
MORE
I am regularly using the cream cosmelite But now due to a fungal infection i have to use a antifungal cream fungicros So So i want to know whether i can apply the cream cosmelite after fungicros
Dr. Atul Jain
Dermatology
Pls tell me which part of body have fungal infections
MORE
What kind of antibiotics should be taken for groin fungal infection along with the micanazole cream?
Dr. Himanshu Gupta
Dermatology
Antibiotic is not required for fungal infection, antifungals like itraconazole, terbinafine, etc are used for fungal infections
MORE
Fungal infections on face and body
Dr. Atula Gupta
Dermatology
Cap. Itraconazole (Itrasys/ Canditral) 100mg twice daily for 2 weeks. Sertacide Cream for application twice daily for 1 month.Tab. Fexova 180 mg (if required in case of itching)
MORE
User feedback
Patients taking Forcan 200 Tablet
Once A Week
40%
Once A Day
40%
Twice A Week
20%
What are you using Forcan Tablet for?
Fungal infect*
95%
Others
5%
*Fungal infections
How much was the improvement?
Average
52%
Poor
35%
Excellent
12%
What were the side-effects while using Forcan 200 Tablet?
No Side Effec*
71%
Nausea
7%
Vomiting
7%
Diarrhea
7%
Rash
7%
*No Side Effect
How do you take Forcan Tablet?
With food
67%
With or witho*
33%
*With or without food
Please rate Forcan 200 Tablet on price
Expensive
59%
Average
41%
FAQs
Q. What is Forcan 200 Tablet used for?
Forcan 200 Tablet is an antifungal medicine. It is used for the treatment of many fungal infections like Cryptococcal meningitis (fungal infection in the brain) and Coccidioidomycosis (a disease of the lungs). Additionally, it is helpful in the treatment of infections caused by Candida found in the bloodstream, body organs (e.g., heart, lungs) or urinary tract, mucosal thrush (infection affecting the lining of the mouth, throat, and denture sore mouth), and genital thrush (infection of the vagina or penis). It can also be used to treat skin infections like athlete's foot, ringworm, jock itch, nail infection.
Q. Can Forcan 200 Tablet be taken with oral contraceptives (OCPs) or birth control pills?
Forcan 200 Tablet has been reported to have a minor interaction when taken with estradiol (a component of oral contraceptives). It can increase the level or effect of estradiol when given along with it. Before starting the treatment with Forcan 200 Tablet inform your doctor if you are taking birth control pills.
Q. Can Forcan 200 Tablet cause hair loss?
Forcan 200 Tablet may cause hair loss as a rare side effect. If during the treatment you experience hair loss, inform your doctor.
Q. Is Forcan 200 Tablet effective?
Yes, Forcan 200 Tablet is effective when used in the dose and duration advised by your doctor. Do not stop taking it even if you see improvement in your condition. If you stop using Forcan 200 Tablet too early, the symptoms may return or worsen.
Q. Is Forcan 200 Tablet fungistatic or fungicidal?
Forcan 200 Tablet is primarily fungistatic which means it controls the growth of fungus). However, it may also act as a fungicidal (kills fungus) medicine against certain organisms, specifically Cryptococcus in a dose-dependent manner, specifically Cryptococcus.
Q. Does Forcan 200 Tablet treat urinary tract infection (UTI)?
Forcan 200 Tablet is used to treat urinary tract infections (UTI) caused mainly by Candida. However, bacteria growth can also cause UTI in some cases. If you are suffering from UTI, please consult your doctor as the cause of infection (fungal or bacterial, or other) needs to be identified before the start of any treatment.
Q. Can I take Forcan 200 Tablet with alcohol?
Yes, Forcan 200 Tablet can be taken with alcohol. No interactions have been reported between the two. However, it is better to consult your doctor on the use of alcohol before taking Forcan 200 Tablet to avoid any side effects and get the maximum benefit of Forcan 200 Tablet.
Q. What if I forget to take a dose of Forcan 200 Tablet?
If you have missed a dose of Forcan 200 Tablet, take it as soon as you remember. However, if it is almost time for your next dose, skip the missed dose and take the next scheduled dose. Do not double the dose to make up for the missed one as this may increase the chances of developing side effects.
Q. Can I take Forcan 200 Tablet for yeast infection?
Yes, Forcan 200 Tablet can be used for the treatment of yeast (candidal) infection. However, if you think you are suffering from a yeast infection, consult your doctor. This is because proper diagnosis is required before starting any therapy.
Q. Is Forcan 200 Tablet a steroid?
No, Forcan 200 Tablet is not a steroid. Forcan 200 Tablet belongs to a group of medicines called antifungals.
Q. Does Forcan 200 Tablet treat bacterial vaginosis?
No, Forcan 200 Tablet does not treat bacterial vaginosis as it is not active against any bacteria. Forcan 200 Tablet is used to treat infection of the vagina caused by Candida (a fungal infection). If you think you are suffering from bacterial vaginosis, consult your doctor. This is because the diagnosis of your infection (whether it is fungal or bacterial) is required to start your treatment.
Q. Does Forcan 200 Tablet make you feel tired?
Yes, Forcan 200 Tablet can make you feel tired. If you experience excessive tiredness during the treatment with this medicine, consult your doctor. The reason for tiredness could be a sign of an underlying liver problem as Forcan 200 Tablet can affect your liver.
Q. Is Forcan 200 Tablet over the counter (OTC)?
No, Forcan 200 Tablet is not an over-the-counter (OTC) product. It is available only when prescribed by your doctor.
Q. Is Forcan 200 Tablet safe to be used in pregnancy?
No, Forcan 200 Tablet is not safe to be used in pregnancy. Studies suggest that the use of Forcan 200 Tablet during pregnancy is harmful to the development of the baby. Therefore, Forcan 200 Tablet is prescribed in pregnant women only if the benefits of the medicine outweigh the risks involved. However, if a woman gets pregnant during the treatment with Forcan 200 Tablet, she must be well informed about the potential harm to the baby. If you are planning to conceive, are pregnant, or breastfeeding, inform your doctor before taking Forcan 200 Tablet.
Q. I feel better now, can I stop taking Forcan 200 Tablet?
No, you should not stop taking Forcan 200 Tablet suddenly without consulting your doctor. This is because suddenly stopping the medication may worsen your condition and your infection may return. Continue your medication even if you feel better as your symptoms may improve before the infection is completely cleared. Stopping the medication too early could allow the fungus to continue to grow and hence, prevent complete healing.
Show more
Show less
Related lab tests
Culture Fungus
Top Physicians
Dr. Pooja Khosla
MBBS, MD, Fellowship
4.5 ★
Dr. Sunil Sekhri
MBBS, Fellowship
4.1 ★
Dr. Yoginder Gupta
MBBS, MD, Fellowship, Fellowship
5 ★
Dr. Suman Kirti
MBBS, MD, Fellowship, Fellowship
4.3 ★
Dr. Rajneesh Kumar
MBBS
4.6 ★
Want to share the information?
Disclaimer:
Tata 1mg's sole intention is to ensure that its consumers get information that is expert-reviewed, accurate and trustworthy. However, the information contained herein should NOT be used as a substitute for the advice of a qualified physician. The information provided here is for informational purposes only. This may not cover everything about particular health conditions, lab tests, medicines, all possible side effects, drug interactions, warnings, alerts, etc. Please consult your doctor and discuss all your queries related to any disease or medicine. We intend to support, not replace, the doctor-patient relationship.
References
Bennett JE. Antifungal Agents. In: Brunton LL, Chabner BA, Knollmann BC, editors. Goodman & Gilman’s: The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics. New York, New York: McGraw-Hill Medical; 2011. pp. 1579-80.
Sheppard D, Lampiris HW. Antifungal Agents. In: Katzung BG, Masters SB, Trevor AJ, editors. Basic and Clinical Pharmacology. 11th ed. New Delhi, India: Tata McGraw Hill Education Private Limited; 2009. pp. 840-41.
Briggs GG, Freeman RK, editors. A Reference Guide to Fetal and Neonatal Risk: Drugs in Pregnancy and Lactation. 10th ed. Philadelphia, PA: Wolters Kluwer Health; 2015. pp. 551-54.
Medsacpe. Fluconazole. [Accessed 29 Mar. 2019] (online) Available from:
Fluconazole. New York, New York: Pfizer; 2014. [Accessed 29 Mar. 2019] (online) Available from:
Chaves RG, Lamounier JA. Breastfeeding and maternal medications. J Pediatr (Rio J). 2004;80(5 Suppl):S189-98. [Accessed 29 Mar. 2019] (online) Available from:
Central Drugs Standard Control Organisation (CDSCO). [Accessed 29 Mar. 2019] (online) Available from:
Manufacturer/Marketer address
Cipla House, Peninsula Business Park, Ganpatrao Kadam Marg, Lower Parel, Mumbai-400013
Country of origin: India
Expires on or after: May, 2024
A licensed vendor partner from your nearest location will deliver Forcan 200 Tablet. Once the pharmacy accepts your order, the details of the pharmacy will be shared with you. Acceptance of your order is based on the validity of your doctor's ℞ and the availability of this medicine.
In case of any issues, contact us
Email ID: [email protected]
Address: 5th Floor Tower - B of the Presidency Building, 46/4 Mehrauli Gurgaon Road, Sector 14, Gurugram, Haryana-122001, India
247 people bought this recently
₹74.7₹93.38Get 20% OFF
₹68.16+ free shipping and 5% Extra cashback with
Care plan members get extra discounts, free shipping, free health screening, premium doctor consultation and more.
Inclusive of all taxes
This offer price is valid on orders above ₹1799. Apply coupon FLAT20 on the cart. Max. coupon discount is ₹600. T&C apply.
1 Strip
4 tablets in 1 strip
Add to cart
Cash on delivery available
Earliest delivery by 10pm, Today
Delivering to:
110020, New Delhi
Additional offers
Amazon Pay: Pay with Amazon Pay and win up to ₹500 cashback. Valid only on minimum order value of ₹399. Valid till 30th November 2022.
Show more
INDIA’S LARGEST HEALTHCARE PLATFORM
260m+
Visitors
31m+
Orders Delivered
1800+
Cities
Get the link to download App
Send Link
Know Us
About Us
Contact Us
Press Coverage
Careers
Business Partnership
Become a Health Partner
Corporate Governance
Our Policies
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
Editorial Policy
Return Policy
IP Policy
Grievance Redressal Policy
Fake Jobs and Fraud Disclaimer
Our Services
Order Medicines
Book Lab Tests
Consult a Doctor
Ayurveda Articles
Hindi Articles
Care Plan
Connect
Social Links
Want daily dose of health?
SIGN UP
Download App
Reliable
All products displayed on Tata 1mg are procured from verified and licensed pharmacies. All labs listed on the platform are accredited
Secure
Tata 1mg uses Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) 128-bit encryption and is Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) compliant
Affordable
Find affordable medicine substitutes, save up to 50% on health products, up to 80% off on lab tests and free doctor consultations.
India's only LegitScript and ISO/ IEC 27001 certified online healthcare platform
Know more about Tata 1mg
Access medical and health information
Tata 1mg provides you with medical information which is curated, written and verified by experts, accurate and trustworthy. Our experts create high-quality content about medicines, diseases, lab investigations, Over-The-Counter (OTC) health products, Ayurvedic herbs/ingredients, and alternative remedies.
Order medicines online
Get free medicine home delivery in over 1800 cities across India. You can also order Ayurvedic, Homeopathic and other Over-The-Counter (OTC) health products. Your safety is our top priority. All products displayed on Tata 1mg are procured from verified and licensed pharmacies.
Book lab tests
Book any lab tests and preventive health packages from certified labs and get tested from the comfort of your home. Enjoy free home sample collection, view reports online and consult a doctor online for free.
Consult a doctor online
Got a health query? Consult doctors online from the comfort of your home for free. Chat privately with our registered medical specialists to connect directly with verified doctors. Your privacy is guaranteed.
© 2022 Tata 1mg. All rights reserved. In compliance with Drugs and Cosmetics Act, 1940 and Drugs and Cosmetics Rules, 1945, we don't process requests for Schedule X and other habit forming drugs.
The Art of Mastering Resources | Tech Blogs
Losing weight has become a difficult process due to the busy schedule. In this connection, many people like using easy methods availed in the market. The doctors oppose the use of pills preferred by most people. They promote the use of the nutritious snacks which are availed in the market send used instead of the starchy snacks. A good number of the snacks in the market supply heavy sugar and carbohydrate content which is supplied in the market. Therefore, it is essential to involve the nutritious snacks which are more advantageous when taken into the body system.
The strong protein snacks are taken into the system assist in the weight loss. For example, they boost the process of breaking down of the glucose. The procedure of raising the glucose metabolism on the body is easy. This ensures that the body increases the glucose synthesis in the body. The body uses up the fats and lipids from the highly synthesized glucose in the body. Raising of the weight loss process in the body is an easy procedure in the body. It is simple to include the protein snack between the meals which promotes the intake of the proteins.
The other aspect in relation to the protein snack is that they reduce the possibility of suffering from heart disease. The heart diseases connected to too much consumption of carbohydrate in the food. The fat is likely to clog and build up along the heart muscles and arteries. This could result to the possibility of suffering from the heart diseases. The absorption of protein food into the body system is a way of reducing the possibility of suffering from the heart disease. To stay healthy, consumption of more protein cereals is a way of overcoming the heart diseases.
The control of blood sugar is another advantage related to the protein intake. There are several benefits of consuming the proteins foods into the body system. In order to have controlled sugar content in the body, take more protein snacks. The protein snacks commonly eaten between meals. Add the amount of the proteins in the food which is consumed. This is advantageous since there is less sugar absorption into the blood system. A number of foods connected to high protein content is boiled eggs, groundnuts and yogurt. Thus, it is in this relation that the proteins gets absorbed into the system .
The proteins give a full feeling in the stomach. They slow the process of digestion. The person could consume a less amount of food. The body requires less amounts of food intake into the system. Therefore, the intake of the protein snack is a way of cutting down the extra weight.
Post Assessment Quiz - Medication Administration - ProProfs Quiz
Post Assessment Quiz - Medication Administration
10 Questions | By Lshustack | Last updated: May 1, 2019 | Total Attempts: 736
The following quiz should be taken after completion of each of the learning activities in the learning contract. A screen shot of your completed quiz score should be taken and pasted into a MS Word doc. And submitted to the instructor.
A nurse prepares an injection of morphine (Duramorph) to give to a client who reports pain. Prior to administering the medication, the nurse is called to another room to assist another client onto a bedpan. This nurse then asks a second nurse to give the injection so that she can help the client needing the bedpan. Which of the following actions should the second nurse take?
Offer to assist the client needing the bedpan.
Give the injection prepared by the other nurse.
Prepare another syringe and give the injection.
Tell the client needing the bedpan she will have to wait for her nurse.
A medication can be administered up to 2 hours following the ordered administration time.
Which of the following nursing actions may prevent medication errors?
Taking all medications out of the unit-dose wrappers before entering the client's room.
Checking with the provider when a single dose requires administration of multiple tablets.
Giving the prescribed medication and then looking up the usual dosage range.
Relying on another nurse to clarify a medication prescription.
When implementing medication therapy, the nurse's responsibilities include prescribing the correct dose and administering the correct amount.
A nurse should use the nursing process when administering medications to prevent errors.
The nurse should question the provider if the prescription is unclear or seems inappropriate for the client's condition. Refuse to give a medication if it is believed to be unsafe and notify the charge nurse or supervisor.
Clients have the right to refuse to take a medication. If that should occur the nurse should determine the reason for refusal, provide information regarding the risk of refusal, notify appropriate health care personnel, and document the refusal and actions taken.
Medication prescriptions are written on the client's medical record by the provider or a nurse who takes a verbal or telephone prescription from a provider. If the nurse writes a medication prescription on the client's medical record, facility policy specifies how much time the provider has in which to sign the prescription (48 hr). Medication prescriptions are transcribed to the medication administration record (MAR) by a nurse or other health care provider.
A PRN prescription stipulates at what dosage, what frequency, and under what conditions a medication may be given. The nurse uses clinical judgment to determine the client's need for the medication. For example, a PRN prescription instructs the nurse to give morphine (Duramorph) 2 mg IVP Q1H PRN for chest pain.
A contraindication is an undesired, inadvertent, and unexpected dangerous effects of the medication. Contraindications are usually identified according to body system.
