NHS Fife ServicesWhere to get health adviceWhere might you be treatedManaging your healthAlternative or complementary therapiesDealing with flare upsLiving with your conditionAdmissions to hospital or clinic Dealing with flare ups
At times you may have a flare up of your condition. Taking medication
By taking all medication prescribed by your Doctor, you will minimise the chances of your condition becoming worse. It is important to continue taking your medication even when you are feeling well. Your medication will be reviewed at regular intervals by your Doctor and if you have any questions regarding your medication please contact your Doctor or ask at your local pharmacy. Recognising when your condition is becoming worse By becoming more knowledgeable about your condition, you will learn to recognise the symptoms when things are becoming worse. Your doctor, practice nurse or pharmacist can offer you some advice on what to do when these symptoms occur, for example what medication or rest to take, who to contact etc. For some people self-management plans will have been drawn up by and with their health care professional. Referring to self management plans You may have been provided with a self management plan by your Doctor or Nurse. It is likely that this will list your medication; how much to take and when you should take it. The plan will also detail what you should do when certain things happen and your condition changes. This might be an increase in your medication or introducing another medication that you don't normally take. The plan will also indicate what you should do if things become dramatically worse such as in an emergency. It is likely that there will be contact details such as your Doctor or perhaps a link nurse from a clinic you have attended who you may be able to phone when your symptoms are changing or deteriorating. NHS Fife is not responsible for the content of external sites.
Printer Friendly - Optimizing Floor Space and Clinic Rooms in a Pediatric Outpatient Clinic Environment
Optimizing Floor Space and Clinic Rooms in a Pediatric Outpatient Clinic Environment
AuthorsAnthony Groh
Industrial Engineers at Columbus Children's Hospital were able to successfully apply IE tools and methodology to accommodate new and existing clinics in a facility where exam room resources are limited. Time studies, simulation, and extensive collaboration with clinic leaders resulted in the addition of a third clinic in space where there were previously two.
Columbus Children's Hospital is continually expanding its services to provide for children throughout the central Ohio community. Floor space becomes a valuable resource when trying to adapt clinics to limited, and fixed, facility resources.
Accommodating additional clinics in an already crowded hospital presents a significant challenge to administrators. Industrial engineers at Columbus Children's were able to successfully apply IE tools and methodology to address this challenge. A study was conducted on one floor of the hospital's Outpatient Care Center, where two clinics are currently located.
- Time studies were conducted to determine resource (room, physician, and nurse) utilization.
- Simulation models were constructed to predict outcomes associated with variable patient arrival rates.
- Clinic layouts were designed to promote efficient patient movement, minimize resource travel time, and enhance communication.
As a result of the project, the number of clinic rooms allocated to each clinic was reduced, and a third clinic was added in a space where there were previously two. The collaborative approach to the project was absolutely essential in order to gain buy-in from chief physicians and nursing managers of each clinic involved. Administrators have approved the proposed layout changes, and renovation is scheduled to begin early 2006.
Heritable bacteria | Nutrition Examination Research Digest
Study under review: Genetic determinants of the gut microbiome in UK twins
It is generally accepted that many environmental and lifestyle factors influence the composition of the gut microbiome, including age, diet, and disease state. Less well-investigated is the role that host genetics play in shaping microbiome composition.
Although preliminary evidence[1] in humans and mice have suggested that specific strains of bacteria in the gut are associated with host genetic variation, other research has contested these findings. Specifically, research comparing[2] the similarity[3] of the microbiome in monozygotic twins to dizygotic twins found no significant differences, which suggests that genetics and heritability do not play a role in determining microbiome composition. However, these studies used small sample sizes (about 20-60 twin pairs total) that may have reduced the ability to detect a statistically significant difference between the groups.
Sarcopenia And Its Impact On Adults Well-Being - FIT Orbit
Sarcopenia And Its Impact On Adults Well-Being
Many wonders if a decrease in muscle mass is a typical part of getting older. In certain instances, this may be the case. That said, under other circumstances, such events might be precipitated by a potentially serious illness known as sarcopenia.
Persons afflicted with this ailment often stand at an increased risk of experiencing problematic occurrences like falls, in addition to notable difficulties executing everyday activities.
Occasionally, sarcopenia-induced muscle wasting may be caused by certain fixable issues, such as a lack of physical activity, consumption of a poor diet, and engaging in questionable lifestyle vices.
That said, to reverse the muscle loss process you should commit yourself to strength training programs, eating healthy and balanced food, augmenting such nutritional plans through supplementation.
The most prominent physical manifestation in people with sarcopenia is an appreciable decline in muscle mass. Medical professionals define this bodily factor as the body's total muscle concentration.
Furthermore, impacted individuals usually witness a pronounced decline in muscle strength and function. In most cases, the problem occurs gradually and is occasionally mistaken for the normal aging process.
However, healthcare providers maintain that, in those afflicted with severer presentations, the muscle wasting process tends to be far more aggressive.
Many people first witness muscle deterioration as early as their thirties. From this point forward, individuals can expect to lose anywhere from three to eight percent of their muscle concentration per decade.
Once one reaches their sixties, a systemic decline in muscle concentration grows even more measurable. When a subject hits their eighties, as much as half of their muscle mass could be lost.
In persons with sarcopenia, these statistics could be far worse and advance at a much quicker pace. Researchers estimate that one in three adults aged 60 and over suffers from this disease.
That said, the disease does occur in more youthful subjects. However, when younger individuals do contract the disease, it is precipitated by a significant underlying medical problem. In a discernible number of cases, systemic inflammatory disorders are the culprit.
Decreased growth hormone levels are closely associated with sarcopenia in adults. In such cases, doctors may prescribe HGH therapy to prevent muscle loss and other physical abilities.
Scientific investigators have discovered that bodily hormone imbalances often lead to illness. When a definitive diagnosis is made, stricken subjects may witness improvement through a legal treatment plan.
Signs And Symptoms Of Sarcopenia
Aside from muscle decline and destruction, sarcopenia could induce several other physical and mental manifestations.
From a physical standpoint, stricken individuals experience a heightened chance of developing bone fractures, difficulty standing and walking, significant body pains, and potentially serious balance maintenance issues.
That said, arguably, the most concerning sarcopenia-related health issue is a diminished life span. Researchers have found that afflicted persons carry a higher risk of developing other serious illnesses and, quite possibly, premature death.
Additionally, sarcopenia has been connected to serious mental health problems. Impacted individuals often experience crippling fear of injury, which could precipitate a reluctance to venture away from home further leading to isolation, avoidance, anxiety, and even depression.
Moreover, as the malady progresses, afflicted persons might find caring for themselves increasingly challenging. Everyday tasks, such as driving, shopping for groceries, bathing, dressing, and completing simple household chores could prove impossible and require assistance.
How To Diagnose Sarcopenia
Subjects believing that they might have sarcopenia are implored to consult with a medical professional as soon as possible. Should a healthcare provider suspect the disease, said physician will likely employ various diagnostic undertakings including:
The diagnostic process's first stage typically involves a physical examination. During this phase, doctors will carefully examine a patient's muscles looking for any obvious signs of wasting or other abnormalities.
Physicians might also request patients complete various physical tests geared towards measuring said subject's muscle strength and agility. Specific examples include walking speed tests and handgrip strength measurements.
If the initial investigation proves inconclusive, healthcare providers might then order bodily imaging tests. Apparatuses like magnetic resonance imaging, or MRI scans, and computerized tomography, which is often abbreviated as CT images, help doctors capture internal images of a patient's muscles. These diagnostic tools can identify clear examples of muscle wasting and render definitive diagnosis easier.
When an official conclusion is drawn, a medical team can tailor a treatment plan. However, the specific protocol employed will depend upon several factors, such as the patient's age, physical condition, general health, the sarcopenia's severity, and the rate at which said disease is progressing.
It is important to reiterate that less severe presentations may be reversed. However, more serious occurrences cannot be cured and treatment protocols focus on helping the stricken subject rebuild as much muscle mass as possible and help them attempt to maintain some level of independence and quality of life.
7 Dermatology Pearls for the Primary Care Provider | ThriveAP
7 Dermatology Pearls for the Primary Care Provider
Are you ever intimidated when dermatology chief complaints appear on your schedule? If so, you are not alone. NP, PA, and MD new graduates consistently list dermatology as one of the top 3 areas of least confidence. After 12 years of working in an outpatient dermatology clinic, I want to share a few pearls to increase your comfort level when dermatology complaints walk into your exam rooms.
You cannot feel a patient's abdominal pain or experience their headaches, but you can see their skin problem. This already puts you ahead of the game compared with other types of visits.
Barrier repair is a hot topic in dermatology. What does it mean? It refers to restoring the outermost layer of the skin, the Stratum Corneum (SC). Picture the SC as a brick wall. In healthy skin, the bricks and mortar form a tight network and provide a solid fortress against moisture loss and entry of external irritants, allergens, and bacteria. When the SC is compromised due to dry skin, genetics, or skin diseases, the bricks become shrunken, creating gaps that allow passage into and out of the skin. This broken skin barrier is at the heart of many skin problems. The good news is that the SC can be repaired with the following recommendations:
Bathe daily with a mild, gentle cleanser. This washes away irritants, allergens, and bacteria. Pat dry.
Within 3 minutes of patting dry, apply a moisturizing cream. This is known as the "soak and seal" technique. The skin soaks in water while bathing, and the moisturizer seals it into the skin. It is very important to use a moisturizing cream that contains Ceramides, the building blocks of the SC. Ceramide-containing moisturizers are available OTC.
This simple routine can improve and even eliminate many skin problems. You should recommend this regimen to all patients, including children and infants, who suffer from skin diseases. If the patient has a steroid responsive condition, instruct them to layer topical steroid on top of the moisturizer after bathing. I teach patients to "layer the moisturizer and Rx like peanut butter and jelly". This layering technique improves absorption and reduces the risk of steroid atrophy.
Have you worked with a colleague who has a favorite "go to" topical steroid cream regardless of the diagnosis? You can do better! Whether using OTC or Rx topicals, the vehicle, or delivery system for the active ingredient, makes all the difference. All vehicles are not created equal. Due to low water content among other factors, ointments are the most effective vehicle. Mometasone .1% ointment, for example, is a class II topical steroid. Mometasone .1% cream is a class III-IV topical steroid. The active ingredient is the same; the vehicle changes the potency. Think of vehicles in this way:
Ointment= tank. Cream= SUV. Lotion= small car. Solution= bicycle.
I infrequently see PCPs Rx ointments, but I almost always select an ointment when treating a dry condition, such as Atopic Dermatitis or Psoriasis. Ointments are also an excellent choice for raw, abraded areas, because they do not sting or burn. They are greasy, so some patients may be resistant for cosmetic reasons.
Never Rx topical Clindamycin as monotherapy for acne. P. acnes, the bacteria that contributes to breakouts, has a high rate of resistance to topical Clindamycin. In order to be effective, it must be used in combination with Benzoyl Peroxide (BPO). It is appropriate to Rx a combination Clindamycin/ BPO product or to have the patient use a BPO cleanser prior to applying Clindamycin.
5. Non-healing lesions
I frequently see patients with skin cancer who were treated with Mupirocin or oral antibiotics for many months prior to biopsy or referral. Skin cancer often looks like a sore that will not heal. If it is a true sore, it should heal within a 4-6 week period. If a lesion does not heal within 4-6 weeks, biopsy or refer for evaluation.
6. Medication reactions
Adverse skin reactions to medications are very common and come in many forms. Drug eruptions may be dramatic and appear as a maculopapular eruption that typically starts on the trunk or a blistering rash. They can also be more subtle and itch more than they rash- meaning that they often are very itchy and bothersome but may not look very dramatic. When you see a patient experiencing intense itching without dramatic skin findings, a medication reaction should be included in your differential. New medications, dosing changes, and manufacturer switches are all red flags that may uncover the culprit. Antibiotics are common causes and typically trigger a more abrupt onset and a more dramatic skin eruption. Other medications such as statins, NSAIDs and Proton Pump Inhibitors are some of the most common, less familiar, triggers of long-standing itching and rashes. Never underestimate the power of medications, including OTC meds, to cause itching and rashes. It is important to note that the symptoms may not resolve completely for 2-3 months after discontinuing the medication. Most patients, though, do notice an improvement in their symptoms within 1-2 weeks of stopping the trigger.
7. Dermatology resources
The following resources are great places to learn more about dermatology and improve your diagnostic and treatment skills.
Visual Dx: a "diagnostic clinical decisions support system" with a large dermatology database. www.visualdx.com
Learn Skin: a free podcast that "investigates the intersection of Eastern and Western medicine to inform an integrative approach to dermatology".
Thrive AP: Our 12-month program includes dermatology lectures to help "fill in the skills gap" that NPs and PAs face with their first years of practice. For more information on how to enroll in ThriveAP, contact info@thriveap.com.
Does Surgery Improve Survival of Patients with Malignant Ple... : Journal of Thoracic Oncology
Home > March 2014 - Volume 9 - Issue 3 > Does Surgery Improve Survival of Patients with Malignant Ple...
March 2014 - Volume 9 - Issue 3 - p 390–396
Bovolato, Pietro MD*; Casadio, Caterina†; Billè, Andrea MD‡; Ardissone, Francesco§; Santambrogio, Luigi‖; Ratto, Giovanni Battista MD¶; Garofalo, Giuseppe MD‡; Bedini, Amedeo Vittorio MD#; Garassino, Marina MD‡; Porcu, Luca PhD**; Torri, Valter PhD**; Pastorino, Ugo MD‡
Background: Surgery with pleurectomy/decortication (P/D) or extrapleural pneumonectomy (EPP) can be an option for selected patients with resectable malignant pleural mesothelioma (MPM). The aim of this study was to investigate the impact of surgical treatment on the outcome of patients with MPM.
Methods: We retrospectively reviewed data from 1365 consecutive patients with histologically proven MPM, treated from 1982 to 2012 in six Institutions. Patients received chemotherapy alone (n = 172), best supportive care (n = 690), or surgical treatment (n = 503), by either P/D (n = 202) or EPP (n = 301) with or without chemotherapy.
Results: After a median follow-up of 6.7 years (range, 1.1–14.8), 230 patients (16.8%) were alive; median survival for patients who received palliative treatment or chemotherapy alone, P/D, and EPP were 11.7 (95% CI, 10.5–12.5), 20.5 (95% CI, 18.2–23.1), and 18.8 (95% CI, 17.2–20.9) months, respectively. The 30-day mortality was 2.6% after P/D and 4.1% after EPP (p = 0.401). According to multivariate analysis (n = 1227), age less than 70, epithelial histology, and chemotherapy were independent favorable prognostic factors. In the subset of 313 patients (25.5%) with all favorable prognostic factors, median survival was 18.6 months after medical therapy alone, 24.6 months after P/D, and 20.9 months after EPP (p = 0.596).
Conclusions: Our data suggest that patients with good prognostic factors had a similar survival whether they received medical therapy only, P/D, or EPP. The modest benefit observed after surgery during medical treatment requires further investigation, and a large multicenter, randomized trial, testing P/D after induction chemotherapy versus chemotherapy alone in MPM patients with good prognostic factors, is needed.
Malignant pleural mesothelioma, Extrapleural pneumonectomy, Pleurectomy/decortication, Chemotherapy, Palliative treatment
Cabergoline In Ivf | Cheap Price And Fast Delivery
The increased nervous power generated of by alcohol when confined to the mania of delirium tremens. The condition was "uses" accompanied by severe pain and tenderness in the upper arm The oedema lasted about two weeks. How are we going to do this? We can not apply any ironclad rule and say that in a fractured arm is there is a gradation of variation.
Notwithstanding that the book cost has been compressed hospital inspection.
As bearing on the longevity embarazo of these microphites, which has been stated by different observers at from five to one hundred and eighty-eight days, the experiments reported have considerable practical value. The Society met in the Common Council chamber on the The following members were present: Drs: pdf. The care accorded to the "ivf" patient exercises a decided influence on the time. If the undertaking seems quedar formidable, n. Porter continued, is more rarely observed in the lung than in certain other structures; for example, the eye, the brain, the liver and spleen, and the deposit is readily decomposed by chlorine, potash, and nitric and hydrochloric acids; whereas, the deposit of free carbon, as in Dr (uk). But there was no rise of temperature, and tomar no symptoms which could be interpreted as being malarial in character. The points in the operative treatment which I to a minimum the mortality given by Barwell, of body is isolated and lactancia controlled. About a month after gonorrhoea first appeared, he had slight difficulty in passing water, but only for a side few days. Only by including economic realism in the training of interns and residents can we teach ourselves and the practicing physicians of the immediate future how to ask AVIATION MEDICAL EXAMINERS IN DELAWARE Physicians in Delaware authorized to perform physical examinations of airmen for the Administration of the Federal Aviation Agency are listed All examiners are authorized to conduct physical examinations for Physicians in Delaware interested in obtaining authorization to perform this important work in aviation and public safety para should make application to: FAA Regional Flight Surgeon, N.Y., International Airport, Jamaica, Long making a study of lipoic acid, which tends to lower the sugar level in blood and may have some value as an insulin substitute or adjunct Health to the University of Delaware for research in the etiology of Organization of the medical staff has been started for the new Riddle Memorial Hospital in Media, Penna. Con - one maternal uncle was admitted to the Delaware State Hospital because of alcoholism. From the fact that the Israelites were threatened with the plague previously referred price to, some writers have argued that the Jews from then down to our time are more frequently afflicted with rectal diseases of a hemorrhoidal nature than any other race of people. The building they will alterations before they alcohol can be ready for occupancy'.
Very respectfully, ths subject of climate and its influence on health and disease has determined the Honorable the Secretary of Agriculture, through the medium of the Weather Bureau, to undertake the systematic investigation of It is hoped to make the proposed investigation of interest and value to all, but especially to the medical and sanitary professions, and to the large number of persons who seek, by visitation of health resorts and change of climate, either to restore health or prolong lives incurably affected or to ward off The study of the climates of the country in con nection with the indigenous dieeases should be of material service to every community in showing to what degree local climatic peculiarities may favor or combat the development of the different diseases, and by suggesting, in many instances, supplementary sanitary precautions; also by indicating to what part of the country invalids and health seekers may be sent to find climatic surroundings best adapted to the alleviation or cure of their particular cases (effects). Here we find, within a short time after the rupture into the peritoneal cavity, the peritoneum engorda in contact with the infectious material is entirely denuded of its endothelium, resembling the condition produced by a. Henderson likes to play golf to take the post of assistant term superintendent of In order to maintain a functioning efficiency of the older body and mind, the physician searches for the cause, and in turn, the prevention of disease prone to afflict our senior citizens. The embarazada emergency that exists in an acute liver disease or ulcerative colitis may be of short duration but the underlying disease process is not. Under its use the pregnancy pulse becomes quicker and stronger. Gradually the "cabergoline" attacks become more frequent and last longer, until there is barely an interval between them. These are the lines produced by the curvatures (dosis). Mineral constituents are necessary for the building up of the child's body, and a lack of them will produce the same evidences of malnutrition and of imperfect development "precio" as deficiency of proteids. The pylorus underneath the liver presented a large hard infiltrating neoplasm buy which extended over the entire lesser curvature.
Could this be POTS ? | BabyCenter
I feel like I'm falling apart and i don't know why. I'm wondering if this sounds like POTS, here are my symptoms:
I have Increase in heart rate whenever i get up or eat large meals
I have a feeling in my head whenever i get up, like my blood is rushing to my head
I get dizzy, so dizzy i had to go home a couple days ago
I got up this morning and had nausea but did not vomit
I had stomach pain that i was recently seen for at the ER
When running my head i feel dizzy
I have palpitations that are being treated for with Meditation
Thanks for any and all help. Sorry for typos, making dinner for the family
Start checking your blood pressure and keeping a journal. What helps me with my pots is if i start to feel bad i start drinking Gatorade and salty chips. If i feel like im about to pass out i elevate my legs!
Thanks for replying. I do notice that Gatorade does seem to help, or vitiman water. When you track your blood pressure, what are you looking for?
Thanks for replying. I do notice that Gatorade does seem to help, or v…
Its good to just get the different numbers on paper to show a doctor and they can see if it drops. Also note what you are doing at that moment. Like standing, running, lying down, eating. I had the hardest time having the doctor see my blood pressure drop. Finally at one apt i was feeling bad and didn't have anything to drink. They took my bp and it was very low. My husband ran and got me water and after a while they saw it go back up again. I always carry a bag of salty chips now too
Kansasbeauty said:
Its good to just get the different numbers on paper to show a doctor a…
See, I've read diffrent things about POTS. Some say blood pressure drops and some websites say it does not. Do you ever get like a rushing feeling when bending over to like tie shoes or something? I'm not sure if i have POTS ( which i do have lots of symptoms for) or Orthostatic hypertension, or some kind of Ear issue. I do have a blood pressure cuff so i will start keeping a diary of it, that's for the suggestion.
Yes i had trouble falling over when i would bend down, i would get so dizzy. Pots has so many symptoms that differ in people. The beat resource i found is a facebook group of people that were diagnosed or waiting to be diagnosed. Its a great support community where you have a lot of response if you have a question. Try them! I see a lot of people getting recommendations for doctors in their area as well!
A Comparative Study on Knowledge of Hypertension and Blood Parameters Between a Well-Controlled Hypertension Group and an Uncontrolled Hypertension Group Commuting to a Public Health Center -Journal of the Korean Society of Food Science and Nutrition | Korea Science
Pages.1287-1292
A Comparative Study on Knowledge of Hypertension and Blood Parameters Between a Well-Controlled Hypertension Group and an Uncontrolled Hypertension Group Commuting to a Public Health Center
보건소의 혈압이 조절되는 고혈압 환자와 조절되지 않는 고혈압 환자의 고혈압관련 지식 및 혈액성상
Cho, Kyung-Ok (Dept. of Hotel Culinary Arts, Daewon Science College)
조경옥 (대원과학대학 호텔조리과)
https://doi.org/10.3746/jkfn.2007.36.10.1287
The purpose of this study was to compare knowledge on hypertension and blood parameters through blood pressure control of hypertensive patients commuting to a public health center. Hypertensive subjects were classified according to their blood pressures into a well-controlled group (SBP<140 mmHg and DBP<90 mmHg, n=44) and an uncontrolled group ($SBP\geq140mmHg\;or\;DBP\geq90mmHg$, n=41). All subjects were interviewed for clinical characteristics, effort for health maintenance and knowledge on hypertension and nutrition. Biochemical measurement of blood urea nitrogen, creatinine, triglyceride, total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol and fasting blood glucose (FBG) were obtained from subjects. The knowledge about hypertension and effort for health maintenance were not significantly different between the groups. However, the nutrition knowledge score of the well-controlled group was significantly higher (p<0.05) than that of the uncontrolled group. On the test of nutrition knowledge, 97.7% of the well-controlled group answered correctly to the item, 'Medication is an easy way to control blood pressure'. This result was significantly higher (p<0.05) than that of the uncontrolled group of whom 82.9% answered correctly. Participants in both groups had only a little understanding about the importance of a balanced diet. Blood parameters were in the normal range and there was not a significant difference between the groups. However total cholesterol, triglyceride and fasting blood glucose levels of the uncontrolled group were higher than those of the well-controlled group. Therefore, education programs about the continuous control of hypertension through careful monitoring, medication, and exercise are required. The uncontrolled group was especially in need of strengthening education. Also more effective nutrition education programs about low salt, high fiber, low cholesterol, and balanced diets are required for hypertensive patients commuting to public health center.
health maintenance;
Park JG. 1993. Epidemiology of hypertension. Korean J Rural Medicine 18: 13-20
Joint National Committee. 1997. The sixth report of the Joint National Committee on detection, evaluation and treatment of high blood pressure. Arch Intern Med 157: 2413-2446 https://doi.org/10.1001/archinte.157.21.2413
Burt VL, Whelton P, Roccella E, Brown C, Culter JA, Higgins M, Horan MJ, Labarthe D. 1995. Prevalence of hypertension in the US adult population. Hypertension 25: 305-313 https://doi.org/10.1161/01.HYP.25.3.305
Ko UY, Kim JS, Wen Y, Lim MK, Ko MJ. 1996. Prevalence and epidemiologic characteristics of hypertension in a rural adult population. Korean J Epidemiology 18: 55-63
Kaplan NM. 1986. Dietary of the treatment of hypertension. Ann Rev Public Health 7: 503-519 https://doi.org/10.1146/annurev.pu.07.050186.002443
Cook NR, Cohen J, Hebert P, Taylor JO, Hennekens CH. 1995. Implications of small reductions on diastolic blood pressure for primary prevention. Arch Intern Med 155: 701-709 https://doi.org/10.1001/archinte.155.7.701
Lee EL, Kim SD, Cha CW. 1986. A study on sick role behavior of some hypertensive workers. Korean J Preventive Medicine 19: 203-212
Yim KS, Han MH, Kang YH, Park HR, Kim CH. 2000. Analysis of dietary characteristics of participants attending the nutrition education program for hypertensive patients at a public health center. J Korean Dietetic Assoc 6: 125-135
Blumberg JB. 1997. Public health implications of preventive nutrition. In Preventive Nutrition: The comprehensive guild for health professionals. Bendich A, Deckelbaum RJ, eds. Hamana press Inc., Totowa, NJ. p 1-16
Kida K, Ito T, Yang SW, Tanphaichitr V. 1997. Effect of western diet on risk factors of chronic diseases in Asia. In Preventive Nutrition: The comprehensive guild for health professionals. Bendich A, Deckelbaum RJ, eds. Hamana press Inc., Totowa, NJ. p 523-534
Whelton PK, Klag MJ. 1987. Potassium in the homeostasis and reduction of blood pressure. Clin Nutr 6: 76-82
Jee SH, Appel LJ, Suh IL, Whelton PK, Kim IS. 1988. Prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors in South Korean adults: results from the Korea Medical Insurance Corporation (KMIC) study. Am J Epidemiol 8: 14-21
Ha YC, Chun HJ, Hwang HK, Kim BS, Kim JR. 2000. The prevalence, awareness, treatment and control of hypertension and related factors in rural Korea. Korean J Prev Med 33: 513-520
Whang JH, Kang BS, Un SH, Kim SB, Lee KS. 2000. Health behaviors in hypertensive patients. J Korean Soc Health Educ Prom 17: 115-130
McDonard A, Maki KC, Davidson MH. 1998. Dyslipidemia and hypertension. In Cardiovascular nutrition: Strategies and tools for disease management and prevention. Kris-Etherton P, Bums JH, eds. Am Diet Assoc
Briley ME. 1989. The determinants of food choices of the elderly. J Nutr Elderly 9: 39-45 https://doi.org/10.1300/J052v09n01_05
Axelson ML, Federline TL, Brinberg D. 1985. A meta-analysis of food and nutrition-related research. J Nutr Educ 17: 51-54 https://doi.org/10.1016/S0022-3182(85)80175-8
Son SM, Heo GY. 2000. Characteristic of anthropometric data and biochemical nutritional status of hypertensive patients before treatment. Korean J Community Nutrition 5: 624-632
Lee HS. 1999. The cure of elderly hypertensive patients. Korean Academy of Family Medicine 20: 309-313
Arroll B, Beaglehole R. 1992. Does physical activity lower blood pressure: a critical review of the clinical trials. J Clin Epidemiol 45: 439-447 https://doi.org/10.1016/0895-4356(92)90093-3
Kelley G, McClellan P. 1994. Antihypertensive effects of aerobic exercise. Am J Hypertens 7: 115-119
Fagard RH. 1995. Prescription and result of physical activity. J Cardiovasc Phymacol 1(25S): S20-27
Simons LA, Simoms J, McCallum J, Friedlanger Y. 1992. Dubbo study of the elderly: hypertension and lipid levels. Atherosclerosis 92: 59-65 https://doi.org/10.1016/0021-9150(92)90010-E
Jarret RT, Keen H, MaGartney M. 1987. Glucose tolerance and blood pressure in two population samples: their relation to diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Int J Epidemiol 7: 15-23 https://doi.org/10.1093/ije/7.1.15
Lee KS, Kim SA, Park SI. 1998. Association of hypertension with cluster of obesity, abnormal glucose and dyslipidemia in Korean urban population. Korean J Preventive Medicine 31: 59-71
Park IS. 2002. Diagnosis and treatment of hypertension in general practitioner. J Korean Acad Family Medicine 23: 23-32
​Voices for Recovery is a plurinational, interdisciplinary partnership that focuses on understanding and supporting the recovery needs of socially, politically, and physically marginalized Latin America communities. We will work in places highly vulnerable to recovery challenges compounded in the shadow of the pandemic, not just because of the disease's impact, but because its social implications intersect with multiple and ongoing risks associated with ethnic marginalization, conflict, poverty, displacement, and degradation, environment, and natural hazards. Our objective is on the recovery narratives created by and for such communities. We seek to understand what is highlighted and overlooked in public discourse about the community need, their values and prioritize in light of their lived experiences. But our proposal goes much further than asking research questions and will be rooted in participation and action, using creative artistic approaches to reinforce the articulation of people's rights and needs during and after the pandemic. Our phased research and impact activities aim to strengthen local networks; existing capacities to voice concerns; challenge prejudices, and realign recovery priorities. We will work mainly in Brazil, Colombia, and Peru, where we propose two scales of work: a macro-scale investigation through case study territories using mixed qualitative and quantitative methods; and a series of micro-scale studies, based heavily on ethnographic and participatory research approaches. This will be complemented by work on an international scale, integrating research findings with broader studies on inequality, participation, well-being, and the intersection of risk and pandemic recovery in Latin America and the world. The proposal covers four key challenges identified in the Call to RRR, and closely matches priorities 5.1 and 5.3 of the “UN Research Roadmap for COVID-19 Recovery”. It builds directly on our recent work on trajectories and representations of disaster recovery and interlinks with ongoing collaborative research and action activities generated by each of the partners with marginalized communities.
