Silencing and game playing; the management of risk status in a medium secure forensic mental health service | City, University of London
Silencing and game playing; the management of risk status in a medium secure forensic mental health service
Speaker: Lisa Reynolds, Divisional Lead, Health Services Research and Management Division, School of Health Sciences, City University London
EVENT LOCATION: Room A111, College Building, St John Street, City University London, EC1V 4PB.
Reserve your place by contacting Doria Pilling.
Forensic mental health services are expected to ensure public safety whilst also promoting recovery and the reintegration of offenders into society (Heyman et al 2004; DH 2007). Faced with this daunting task under intense scrutiny, forensic mental health services may tacitly develop strategies of silencing dissent which serve to protect the organisation.
In this presentation strategies of silencing adopted by service users in response to the organisational ecology of one forensic mental health service will be examined. Data from a case study of an inner city medium secure forensic mental health unit in the UK will be used to explore how forensic mental health service users negotiate and manage their risk status through regulating and, in part, silencing their communication with service providers. A grounded theory methodology was used. Service users and providers were interviewed, and activities taking place within the service were observed over an eight month period. The theme of the regulation of communication to manage risk status emerged from the data analysis as an over arching category. This theme will be discussed from a service user perspective in the presentation. The implications of silencing and game playing for the provision of forensic mental health services will be considered. This will include the impact on risk assessment, decision making; and partnership working with service users.
Lisa Reynolds is a mental health nurse by background who has worked in medium, low secure and community forensic mental health provision. She is part of a research team at City University London which has undertaken participatory research with forensic mental health service users and explored risk assessment in forensic mental health care. In her role of lecturer at City Lisa works closely with mental health service users to develop teaching in the areas of risk assessment and management.
DH (2007) Best Practice Guidance: Specification for adult medium secure services. [accessed 6th December 2011]
Heyman, B., Shaw, M., Davies, J., Godin, P. and Reynolds, L. (2004) Forensic mental health services as a risk escalator: a case study of ideals and practice. Health Risk and Society, 6 (4): 307-325.
Methods: Models and Tools – Center for Health Decision Science
Center for Health Decision Science > Methods: Models and Tools
Methods: Models and Tools
Scan brief descriptions of methodological work conducted by our center community and our decision science colleagues.
Validating Cardiovascular Disease Model
This paper describes a cardiovascular disease model used to evaluate prevention and treatment, and a validation process in which simulated results were compared to observed all-cause and CVD-specific mortality data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey using survival curves and ROC curves.
Modeling the Natural History of HPV
Iterative Process of Empiric Calibration
These two papers describe the construction and empiric calibration of a cervical cancer microsimulation model at two time points, first leveraging primary data from a large epidemiological study (Kim et al.), and second leveraging data on type-specific HPV persistence and clearance from the control arm of vaccine trials (Campos et al.).
Featured Resource: Open Source Modeling Platform
Amua, the Swahili word meaning "decide", is an open-source, freely-available software platform for users to build decision models. The software was designed by CHDS' Zach Ward to be transparent, flexible, and accessible. Learn about Amua.
Adopting Remote Patient Monitoring in Practice - ForaCare
Adopting Remote Patient Monitoring in Practice
Are you a physician looking to implement Remote Patient Monitoring?
ForaCare, Inc. is committed to making technology an asset, not a burden, and continues to invest in products and services that provide physicians with a proven path for integrating telemedicine and digital health technologies into patient care.
Remote patient-monitoring utilizes tools such as home blood glucose meters and blood pressure monitors, Bluetooth-enabled digital scales and other devices that can communicate biometric data for review which may also involve the use of mHealth apps.
With FORA's 24/7 HealthView remote patient monitoring tool, physicians can apply patient-generated health data to improve the management of chronic disease, while engaging patients in their own care.
To learn more about how to integrate RPM, we invite you to review the AMA's Digital Health Implementation Playbook which offers a 12-step process for adopting RPM using devices to capture and record patient-generated health data outside the traditional clinical environment.
Ready to get started? Contact us today to request a free demo, call 1-888-307-8188 or email service@foracare.com.
Church with where can u buy rubber wristbands how to design good looking+custom rubber wristbands - wristband online
2020/10/25 2:20:04
Church with where can u buy rubber wristbands how to design good looking+custom rubber wristbands
favourite basketball star is Michael Jardon , then the logo of Michael on the bracelet will remind you of all the achievement he made. The heart suggestion will inspire you to play better to overcome limitations. There will be great power of heart suggestion made by the silicone bracelet of your star. A digital sports bracelet is based on a variety of detection devices in the bracelet and link with mobile APP. The phone shows the physical fitness, heart rate, blood pressure and other indicators of the value. The principle is very simple, testing the blood distribution of the skin changes shows bloodcustom rubber wristbands pressure and heart rate. The datacustom rubber wristbands is collected by the sensor. After the filter processing, the analysis is converted into a number of steps or movement. That all shows the standard of health. Different color of the bracelet has different meanings. Band color white stand for making poverty history. Yellow stand for livestrong. Black and white stand for standing up and speaking up. Blue stand for beatting bullying. Pink stand for supporting knowledge strength. Blue and white stand for one world one cause Blue and green stand for say no to sectarianism. Also a silicone bracelet can be used as a promotional item for entertainment or sport. It is hot sale as a advertisement gift.
Samuel Lesko, MD, MPH Presents Local Study at PA Medical Society Annual Meeting - Northeast Regional Cancer Institute
Samuel Lesko, MD, MPH, Director of Research/Medical Director at the Northeast Regional Cancer Institute recently presented at the Pennsylvania Medical Society annual House of Delegates in Hershey, PA.
The session, which was entitled "Overview for Physicians on Marcellus Shale Natural Gas Fracking," was attended by approximately 200 physicians from across the state.
Dr. Lesko spoke about the Community Health Survey currently being undertaken by the Cancer Institute to establish baseline health data of residents in areas of Northeast Pennsylvania where natural gas drilling has occurred or is likely to begin. Two other speakers also shared insight on related topics during the 90-minute session.
The Northeast Regional Cancer Institute is a local nonprofit organization dedicated to easing the burden of cancer in Northeastern Pennsylvania. 100% of Cancer Institute resources are invested in the region and programming focuses on community and patient services, hospital and practice support services, and epidemiology research.
So sound clinical reasoning involves weighing up probabilities, cross-checking our gut feeling with the available dataset and the rules we know we can apply, and being aware of gaps in our knowledge and limitations in our thinking.
[Medicine is the] practice of an art which consists largely in balancing possibilities. It is a science of uncertainty and an art of probability…Absolutely diagnoses are unsafe and made at the expense of conscience.
To study the phenomenon of disease without books it to sail an unchartered sea, while to study books without patients is not to go to sea at all.
It is wonderful to see that clinical reasoning has become a subject of study unto itself. Thinking through problems is central to what veterinarians do. One of my colleagues, a retired equine practitioner, told me “vets are decision making machines. You could make 1000 decisions in a day.” The mechanisms of decision making therefore impact on clinical outcomes and patient wellbeing and are worthy of our attention in their own right.
May SA (2013) Clinical reasoning and case-based decision making: the fundamental challenge to veterinary educators. Journal of Veterinary Medical Education 40(3):200-209.

The Asian first and world’s second “CHINAPLAS ”has been working for delivering the latest market trend and technology developments for professionals. During this exhibition, the global chemical giant & leading special characteristic material supplier—BASF will offer an activity “Design & Innovation “for all audiences.
Data relative to consultation-liaison psychiatry (C-L) in oncology are lacking. In order to examine this area, a multicentre investigation was conducted in 17 general hospitals in Italy. All psychiatric consultation requests for cancer patients referred to C-L during a 1-year period were evaluated. Only 5% (n=217 referred patients: 114 men and 103 women) of all C-L activity were for cancer patients. Most were 'routine' consultations (72%) for current psychiatric symptoms (69%) or coping/compliance problems (12%). Previous psychological or psychiatric disorders were shown in 32% of cases. Approximately 40% of patients were not informed of their referral to C-L. The most frequent ICD-10 psychiatric diagnoses were adjustment disorders (27%) and major affective disorders (23%). Transfer to psychiatric units was low (1%). These findings indicate the need for improvement of referral criteria to C-L and closer attention to continuity of psychosocial care of cancer patients during hospitalisation and post-discharge.
Should I have a biopsy or scan? - PBC Foundation | HealthUnlocked
I was diagnosed two and a half years ago with PBC (doctor told me over the phone!) - by positive AMA and I saw a gastro about 2 months later. I was not given another appointment with the gastro for a check up (say six or twelve months later). I did not have a biopsy or a scan. My test results are in range - slightly elevated ALK - but I eat an exemplery diet. Gluten and grain free, lots of vegetables and salad, bit of fruit - apples and berries, eggs, meat, chicken, fish. I do eat dairy - milk, yoghurt. I cook from scratch and do not eat ANY prepared, take-away or junk food, sugar. I also have Hashi, Addisons, Celiac, Myasthenia Gravis - these are the ones I know about!!!
Should I insist on another appointment with the gastro and ask for a biopsy and/or scan? I would like to know how much damage has been done to my liver.
I can only tell you my understanding of the investigation process. You'd get much better information from PBC Foundation (http://www.pbcfoundation.org.uk) or, if you have a good gp or gastro doc, from one of them. At the very least they should be able to explain to you why they have decided not to do a scan or a biopsy.
My understanding of the process of diagnosis (here in Ireland at least) is that a biopsy isnt considered necessary for diagnosis. You can be diagnosed with probable PBC with the presence of AMA and elevated liver enzymes. They often don't do biopsy or scan because they are unreliable.
A scan doesn't give the docs information about the extent of damage done by PBC. I had a scan but the purpose (I was told) was to rule out other causes (eg gallstones) for my elevated liver enzymes. It doesn't show the bile ducts so it can't tell you if there is damage there
The problem with biopsy is that it only shows the parts of the liver where the needle goes in. PBC doesn't affect the liver in a uniform way so you would have some healthy liver and some damaged liver. It's possible for the needle to miss the damaged part or perhaps to hit the only (maybe small) damaged part.
The PBC foundation site has a lot of useful information on it and they can help you with additional information if you want it.
Well done for having such a healthy diet, they certainly can't accuse you of not trying to keep yourself healthy. Keep it up.
Were you put on URSO medication by the gastro as that is the only treatment out there for treating PBC, it helps slow down the progression of the disease?
Does your Dr regularly check your bloods? If your not being seen by your gastro your Dr should be checking on you. I see the Gastro consultant once a year and have blood tests done the week before my appointment. I mentioned to my GP that maybe I should have regular blood tests done at the surgery as no one is keeping an eye on my levels during the year and was told regular blood tests were not necessary unless I was unwell. I commented that I had read on this site of others who were having blood tests every 3 - 6 months and was then told 'they must be more poorly than you'.
As for having scans or biopsy...I had both as that is what my gastro wanted. He told me the scans were to check if the problem was just contained within the liver and to check on the gall bladder etc and the biopsy was to confirm the extent of damage to the liver.
Sorry you're not seemingly having blood tests at reasonable lapses in time.
I got a copy of the letter the hospital consult sent to my GP when I asked him to discharge me in Oct 2011 as I felt I was just trekking to the hospital for what could be done at the surgery. He decided to agree with on discharge but said he'd deem it as on-going with the mention that in future if anything changed I would go back so I agreed if the time arose...
In his copy to the GP he stated that he requests blood checks every 6 months. I did actually have them done every 3 months last year as Feb 2012 they were starting to climb slowly tho' not too badly. Then May 2012 they came right down to be deemed good but then Oct 2012 they were slowly elevating again. I started back on milk thistle that I had experimented with myself during Feb and May's bloods and given May's were good, started on milk thistle again Dec 2012 and got fantastic results Feb just gone. Prob be 6mths before I go to the GP for the repeats as he is very vague and on Feb comments he didn't actually state when to go for the next ones so I'll go when I next get round unless I'm asked at the med review at some point in the next couple mths when I will ask.
I am seeing my gastro consultant in may/june so I will ask him how often I need these checks because I am getting no where with my GP. All my GP is doing is providing me with my repeat scripts and an annual med review, they do not interfere with the URSO only the painkillers, omeprazole and calcium.
I started with a scan of the liver and surrounding areas prior to having my first hospital consult appt later 2010.
My bloods were elevated and climbing slowly during that yr.
After the scan I was informed by the hospital consult that it was looking quite normal from the scan but the bloods were stating there was 'a bit of inflammation'. I had the AMA blood test taken and 2 months later in Dec 2010 I was diagnosed with PBC. Started urso Dec 2010.
All I can think from what you have put here is that maybe your bloods aren't in a range that warrants having urso at present? But not being a medic I can't answer that of course but it does seem or appear a likely explanation.
I'd expect if you have AMAs as you have stated then you'd have repeat bloods at intervals? If not I'd ask your doctor if you can have a repeat of them, that might just start the ball rolling again?
It was my GP who sanctioned the scan before making me an appt to see the hosp consult. It is the hospital consult apparently who would sanction a biopsy as I understand. I believe the first line is the scan prior to any biopsy if it is recommended. I've never had a biopsy and wouldn't deem one for me given my results and symptons of which are really only the itch (what I started with in the first place).
A biopsy is normally advised if a hospital consult isn't certain about something here in England. I know in the US it seems standard to have a biopsy even after you've had a diagnose of PBC through the AMA.
I personally can't see the point as SC49 has stated, there has been questions about what part of the liver is showing as what due to the biopsy site. I also think that for myself anyway, to put myself through what could be an unnecessary biopsy and then for that part of the liver to have to reheal itself after being punctured with a large needle, it's not what I would personally want/do.
I do think that bloods are a pretty good way of giving some indication as to how PBC is progressing along with any developing symptons along the way (if any).
I have had two liver biopsies both of which were inconclusive, my consultant has since told me that it is no longer recommended. Blood tests are more reliable, also a liver enzyme scan which at the moment we have been told can only be carried out in London could give a more definitive diagnosis, I am on the list for this procedure and will keep you all posted.
Good luck with whatever is decided for you.
With having an illness like PBC, Im afraid it often falls to the patient to make sure they get the treatment they want. I dont know your situation with bloods etc but you could contact the PBC Foundation to discuss. If you are not happy with your doctors you can always get a second opinion. For myself I have bloods every 6mths as routine and an US scan every three years but Im always encountering little PBC problems along the way.
I have had a biopsy and three ultrasound scans ( 12 months apart) so far and now have bloods done every 6 months. My gastro and GP said a Biopsy needed to be done to confirm it. How they all have different opinions! I also had a MRI on my liver first.
I am in the US and was diagnosed a year ago. I am not on URSO and refused a biopsy because of what I have read here but mostly because there is no other treatment besides URSO. If a biopsy would indicate other treatment that would be different. It is true that biopsy is usually done in this country,
I like your stance on how you are dealing with diagnose dinnyd.
Like yourself once I had the diagnose of PBC which mine was done as you'll probably have already read on here by AMA blood test, I had no intentions of any biopsy if it had even have been mentioned. My GP at the time reckoned I would be offered a biopsy by the hospital consultant so I asked him why! It has never been mentioned.
A good liver specialist will NOT suggest a biopsy unless there is concern about also having autoimmune hepatitis. Staging of the disease is done by Fibroscan. Might I suggest you look for a doctor who will prescribe Urso without the liver biopsy. Seems like only gastro doctors want to do the biopsy when it is really not necessary. Good luck.
in reply to Mofusdog
My gastro prefers fibroscan, so that's what I had.
Thank you Peridot. For some reason, the doctors here think you can evaluate the stage with a biopsy. However, from what I have read one would need to take several samples to get an accurate read, and there is no crossroad at the end of that test. Treatment would not change.
Thank you everyone for your replies and advice. It's also great to know that you're not alone. Being on the NHS here in the UK sure makes life interesting / frustrating. I will phone the PBC Foundation and also speak to my GP who I am seeing next week. I will ask her about a referral to Kings College (?) (will need to do some research on that).
I was diagnosed also 2 and half years ago with pbc, I don't want to know, how much damage has been done, because I need to keep some smile on my face. The labs (once or twice a year) show so small connection with how do I feel, that it seems to me unnececery. I want to know about all this, for this I know what to change compared to my previous life when I was healthy, but there are so many nice informations about other autoimmune sicknesses, for me that's enough. Today I was told I have myasthenia gravis, few months ago polyneiropathy, in the meantime strong heart disorders...
I'd like to ask YOu about myasthenia. How are YOu with this?
Please, try to ask for lab test 1-2 per year, just if any sudden big change! Be well
By "scan" are you referring to an ultra sound or a fibroscan? I suggest that a fibroscan is better than a biopsy to measure the elasticity of the liver - to tell you how damaged your liver might be.
WOW - am I impressed by how well you are taking care of yourself with diet.
liver biopsy or is there any other way of confirming PBC? (I'm in the US) If you think biopsy is a good...
I'm going to see my gastro in a couple of weeks for the first time post biopsy - I got my diagnosis by...
WHY USING TULSI SUPPLEMENTS IS BENEFICIAL? - Bloggerinfoz
WHY USING TULSI SUPPLEMENTS IS BENEFICIAL?
The Tulsi plant has long been used in Ayurvedic medicine for the treatment of a variety of diseases. Tulsi is considered to have a variety of medicinal effects including the reduction of fever, inflammation, and pain. Tulsi is a powerful diuretic and detoxifier, which can help cleanse the body of harmful toxins and boost the immune system. Tulsi leaves also contain flavonoids, which are natural plant compounds that are beneficial for health. Tulsi capsules are made from Tulsi leaf, which is a popular spice that is widely used in Indian Ayurvedic medicine.
The benefits of Tulsi supplements are that it is a natural remedy for soothing the liver and also help in controlling blood pressure and blood sugar levels. It also helps in controlling the blood vessels so that they do not constrict and obstruct the flow of blood. Thus, below are some benefits of Tulsi supplements.
Treats heart diseases: Tulsi supplements may lower blood pressure and cholesterol levels and improve cardiovascular health, especially in people who have high blood pressure or are at high risk for heart disease. Tulsi is known to improve heart health by reducing bad cholesterol. As a result, it has become increasingly popular among those looking for a natural, cholesterol-free alternative to conventional medicines.
Soothe your throat and clears your respiratory tract: Tulsi is an Ayurvedic remedy for a sore throat. It is known to relieve the pain caused by the sore throat and to reduce the swelling and inflammation of the throat. It is commonly used in the treatment of respiratory disorders such as asthma, bronchitis, and pharyngitis.
Helps in treating Asthma: The Tulsi oil, Tulsi is an ayurvedic herbal medicine used to treat asthma and other respiratory problems. It is a semi-synthetic form of the roots of the Tulsi plant. This is a widely used herb and is one of the most widely used for this purpose.
Reduces stress: Stress is a serious issue in modern society. Tulsi is rich in antioxidants and supports the nervous system. For example, as a part of the Ayurvedic treatment for stress, it helps to calm the nervous system. Tulsi prevents stress and anxiety and improves sleep.
Improves immune system: Tulsi supplements improve immunity by cleansing the lymphatic system and stimulating the immune system. Tulsi is an adaptogen, which means it increases the body's resistance to stress and improves immunity. It is also a great source of vitamins and minerals, including vitamin C, calcium, iron, and potassium, which are all important for overall health and well-being.
The Tulsi supplements use the herbal formula in an herbal preparation to relieve pain. It is also used to treat constipation and nausea. Tulsi supplements are also used to relieve pain and swelling. Tulsi is used to treat colds and flu. Tulsi is also used to get rid of the body of toxins and increase immunity.
Ojas Ayurveda is a form of Ayurveda, which is an ancient system of traditional medicine that originated in India. It is based on the principles of traditional Indian medicine, which have existed since ancient times, and is the oldest system of medicine in the world.
What Is Rheumatoid Arthritis? #rheumatoid #arthritis, #ra, #ra, #symptoms, #causes, #treatment, #diagnosis, #joint, #pain, #inflammation, #joint #lining, #stiffness, #swelling, #autoimmune, #drug, #medication, #joint #damage, #immune #system, #rf, #anti-ccp, #bone, #hands, #knees, #hips, #x-ray, #blood #test, #esr, #crp, #ana, #antibody, #steroid, #dmard, #biologic, #methotrexate, #immunosupressant, #exercise | Travels
admin22/09/2017Newsana, anti-ccp, antibody, arthritis, autoimmune, biologic, blood, bone, causes, crp, Damage, diagnosis, dmard, drug, esr, exercise, hands, hips, immune, immunosupressant, inflammation, joint, knees, lining, medication, methotrexate, pain, ra, rf, rheumatoid, steroid, stiffness, swelling, symptoms, System, Test, treatment:, x-ray
Arthritis means inflammation in a joint. That inflammation causes redness, warmth, swelling, and pain within the joint.
Rheumatoid arthritis affects joints on both sides of the body, such as both hands, both wrists, or both knees. This symmetry helps to set it apart from other types of arthritis .
Rheumatoid arthritis affects everyone differently. For some, joint symptoms develop gradually over several years. In others, it may come on quickly.
The disease is two to three times more common in women than in men, but men tend to have more severe symptoms.
Doctors don't know the exact cause. Something seems to trigger the immune system to attack the joints and sometimes other organs. Some experts think that a virus or bacteria may change the immune system, causing it to attack the joints. Other theories suggest that in some people, smoking may lead to rheumatoid arthritis .
Immune system cells move from the blood into the joints and joint-lining tissue, called synovium. Once they arrive, those immune system cells create inflammation, which wears down cartilage (the cushioning material at the end of bones). As the cartilage wears down, the space between the bones narrows. As it gets worse, the bones could rub against each other.
Inflammation of the joint lining causes swelling and makes fluid build-up within the joint. As the lining expands with inflammatory cells, it can produce substances that damage the bone.
All of these things cause the joint to become very painful, swollen, and warm to the touch.
Bumps and nodules under the skin (rheumatoid nodules )
Results of X-ray and blood tests
Most, but not all, people with rheumatoid arthritis have the rheumatoid-factor (RF) antibody in their blood. Rheumatoid factor may sometimes be present in people who do not have rheumatoid arthritis. Therefore, the diagnosis of rheumatoid arthritis is based on a combination of joint problems, as well as test results.
A more specific blood test for rheumatoid arthritis is the cyclic citrulline antibody test, also called anti-CCP. The presence of anti-CCP antibodies suggests a tendency toward a more aggressive form of rheumatoid arthritis.
People with rheumatoid arthritis may have mild anemia. Blood tests may also show an elevated erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR) or elevated C-reactive protein (CRP) levels, which are signs of inflammation.
Some people with rheumatoid arthritis may also have a positive antinuclear antibody test (ANA), which indicates an autoimmune disease. but the test does not specify which autoimmune disease.
Treatments include medications. rest and exercise. and, in some cases, surgery to correct joint damage .
Your treatment will depend on several things, including your age, overall health, medical history, and how severe your case is.
Many rheumatoid arthritis medications can reduce joint pain. swelling, and inflammation. Some of these drugs prevent or slow down the disease.
Anti-inflammatory painkillers, such as aspirin. ibuprofen. or naproxen
Pain relievers that you put on your skin
There are also many strong medications called disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs), which work by interfering with or suppressing the immune system's attack on the joints. They include:
When joint inflammation gets better, you need to exercise to your keep joints flexible and to strengthen the muscles that surround them. Low-impact activities, such as brisk walking or swimming. and gentle stretching can help. You may want to work with a physical therapist at first.
Although there isn't a cure for rheumatoid arthritis, early, aggressive treatment has been shown to help prevent disability and increase the chance to attain remission.
WebMD Medical Reference Reviewed by David Zelman, MD on June 07, 2017
FDA. News Release. "FDA approves Inflectra, a biosimilar to Remicade." "FDA approves Amjevita, a biosimilar to Humira."
