Olympus BX53 Microscope – Stay comfortable while you work • healthcare-in-europe.com
Sponsored • Microscopy
In the modern world, ergonomics is everywhere – and when microscopy is a big part of your daily routine, ergonomics should be at the forefront. Olympus' BX53 microscope is designed with laboratory professionals in mind, allowing the microscope to be customized so that every user can work in their ideal posture.
Olympus' BX53 microscope.
Microscopes are widely used for industrial, research and clinical applications. However, laboratory microscope users often carry out microscopy for a significant percentage of their overall working hours. For these users, there are specific considerations that are more important than when somebody uses a microscope occasionally. The most critical aspect of these is ergonomics.
Working at the microscope for prolonged periods of time carries a significant risk of injury when a user is not working in a comfortable position. Many of these injuries lead to long periods of staff absence or to users being unable to carry out microscopy work. This means that choosing the right ergonomic microscope and setting it up with each individual user's ergonomics in mind greatly improves productivity in the long term.
Getting the right ergonomic setup
The setup of an ergonomic microscope is usually straightforward. However, it is important to get the details right. The five STEAM-points can help to get the setup right from the start. These five points are:
Seat. It is important to start with the chair. Make sure your bottom is at the back of the chair to give enough support to the lumbar spine.
Table. The position of the microscope on the table should be as close to the edge as possible. This will prevent you from having to lean forward to see through the eyepieces.
Eyepieces. A flexible observation tube ensures that every user has the eyepieces at the right height. This should be quick in order to make sure that everybody can make these adjustments every time they use the microscope.
Arms. If the focus controls are too far from the desk, it becomes necessary to bend your wrists upwards, which creates tension in your arms. You can prevent wrist injuries by choosing a microscope with low-positioned focus controls.
Movement. Even when you are in an optimal position, it can be beneficial to make slight adjustments while you work. Working in exactly the same position for long periods of time can become uncomfortable, even in the optimal setup.
While these STEAM adjustments greatly help in attaining comfort, the actual design of the microscope is key to minimizing any possible injury. To address the issue of ergonomics in laboratory microscopy, Olympus has developed the versatile BX53 microscope with ergonomics at the forefront of its design. It features the latest developments in LED technology to deliver true color rendering from a bright, durable light source, while also delivering a range of ergonomic features.
For example, the extended focus controls enable the user to keep their hands resting on the table while moving the stage. Buttons for controlling the motorized objective switching can be freely located anywhere on the microscope frame or even on the desk. To improve the ergonomics further, the observation tube of the BX53 has also been designed with the unique ability to adjust the eyepiece position in 3D, ensuring that each user can find the most fatigue-free position.
Chills, Cough and Night sweats: Common Related Medical Conditions
Chills, Cough and Night sweats
WebMD Symptom Checker helps you find the most common medical conditions indicated by the symptoms chills, cough and night sweats including Common cold, Bronchitis, and Asthma (child).
There are 60 conditions associated with chills, cough and night sweats. The links below will provide you with more detailed information on these medical conditions from the WebMD Symptom Checker and help provide a better understanding of causes and treatment of these related conditions.
TuberculosisTuberculosis usually infects the lungs, causing a bad cough with blood, chest pain, fever, chills, and fatigue. Cold exposureCold exposure symptoms include color changes on the skin, numbness, stinging, redness, blisters, and more.
LaryngitisLaryngitis is an inflammation of the larynx, or voice box, causing hoarseness and loss of voice. PneumoniaPneumonia is a lung infection and causes cough, shortness of breath, wheezing, chest pain, fever, and chills. Chronic sinusitisChronic sinusitis, or sinus infections, cause a stuffy or runny nose, tooth pain, fever, sore throat and more.
Radon exposureBreathing in high levels of radon over time can cause lung cancer. Lung cancer (small cell)Small cell lung cancer is the least common type of lung cancer and can cause a cough, chest pain, and more.
Pulmonary fibrosisPulmonary fibrosis is a serious chronic lung condition where the lungs become scarred and stiff. Respiratory syncytial virusRespiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a virus that causes symptoms similar to the common cold. Sjogren's syndromeSjogren's syndrome is an autoimmune disorder that most often causes dry eyes and dry mouth. Lyme diseaseLyme disease is a bacterial infection spread through tick bites; symptoms include rash, fever chills, and more.
Exercise-induced asthmaExercise-induced asthma causes wheezing, coughing, shortness of breath, and chest tightness. MononucleosisMononucleosis is a viral infection causing extreme fatigue, sore throat, fever, rash, muscle aches, and more.
West nile virusWest Nile virus is an infection spread by mosquitoes, and can cause diarrhea, fever, abdominal pain, and more. Renal cell (kidney) cancerRenal cell cancer is a type of kidney cancer that can cause bloody urine and persistent pain in the side. EndocarditisSigns of endocarditis, an infection of the heart, include swelling, rash, sinus congestion, nausea, and more.
It was frustrating to be diagnosed with Drug Resistance Tuberculosis (DR TB) but I Survived | WHO | Regional Office for Africa
It was frustrating to be diagnosed with Drug Resistance Tuberculosis (DR TB) but I Survived...
It was frustrating to be diagnosed with Drug Resistance Tuberculosis (DR TB) but I Survived
"My name is Kitaw Teklemariam. My daughter was only two years old while I was diagnosed as a TB patient at the age of 40. The problem I had been dealing with was not only my health; I was also confronted by the stigma from my family and the community. That touched me very deeply. Thank you I am alive now because of the affordable care I found in the country and the improved management of Drug Resistant Tuberculosis (DR TB) cases that provided me a good quality of care to save my life. I am grateful for doing the sensitization in different regions by sharing my story as a survival and promoting the TB program that benefits TB patients and the communities with little cognizance.
Worldwide, in 2017, 558 000 people developed TB that was resistant to Rifampicin (RR-TB), the most effective first-line drug, and of these, 82% had multidrug resistant TB (MDR-TB). Among cases of MDR-TB in 2017, 8.5% were estimated to have extensively drug-resistant TB (XDR-TB). The national TB program in Ethiopia provides care for MDR and XDR TB patients. The number of people dying of MDR TB was high previously but by the time Kitaw was diagnosed, there was an improved program capacity that saved many lives.
Kitaw was first diagnosed as a MDR TB Patient in 2015. Kitaw shares his experience that he was having very little knowledge about TB particularly on DR. 'The symptom I had first was a cough and I have never expected that will be TB. So, I was treating myself with common cold traditional medicines. After two months passed, it was diagnosed as TB but again it was not confirmed as DR TB. I started treatment with the first line drug-Rifampicine but I did notnot respond to this treatment and I become weak. Further investigations were made and finally I was diagnosed as having DR TB. So I was obliged to start the treatment again with new medicine. It was frustrating to me to be diagnosed with DR TB and initially I lost my hope since I thought my life was ending but with the encouragement from my wife, I started taking the medicine that helped me to survive'.
It was too late for him to retrieve his customers back to continue working as an electrician after he was forced to stay away from his job while he was undergoing with his treatment. Though he faced many challenges, Kitaw didn't stop his medicine until he finished and finally his result became and continue to be negative. One and half years have passed now after Kitaw started to work as a CEO in Organic Health Care service Ethiopian Residence Charity which helped him to cover his living cost. This helped him to continue his life substituting his previous business where he was used to work as an electrician.
The government of Ethiopia in collaboration with partners continued to accelerate its effort to fight against TB through case surveillance, prevention and provision of quality care for patients. In 2018 alone, a total of 741 patients confirmed to have DR-TB and all of them have been started on treatment.
Dr Daniel Meressa is a clinician internist at St Peter's Hospital for Coordination of the MDRTB treatment program and clinical management of patients. Dr Daniel speaking about the program said that "There are committed health workers and program managers as well as committed international consultants and partner organizations that closely support the program. Dr Daniel also suggested the need to strengthen the program focusing on active case finding and systematic screening of high-risk populations as well as the Psychosocial support for patients
World Health Organization, as a key strategic partner for MOH, is supporting the government through provision of technical support. WHO provides this technical assistance to strengthen the national TB, TBHIV and MDR TB program including TB prevalence surveys and data analysis, Anti TB drug resistance surveillance and support its quality through adopting standard WHO protocols, facilitating trainings to build the capacity of TB program managers and TB Laboratory staffs, and conducting program monitoring field visits. The TB and DR TB strategic plan for 2015-2020 and the national guidelines were revised in line with the latest WHO recommendations.
FOCIS - FOCIS Newsletter - Fall 2014
Fall 2014 – Volume 11, Issue 3
In a forever evolving world of professional environments and expectations it is imperative to demonstrate value and differentiation. Everyone can use a helping hand to further themselves in their career. With time and financial restrictions, it is necessary to understand new developments in a multitude of autoimmune diseases in the basic immunology of autoimmunity to stay at the cutting edge of your field.
FOCIS' educational courses, such as the Advanced Course in Basic & Clinical Immunology, all take a different path intended to serve to disseminate knowledge about the application of basic concepts to the understanding and treatment of human disease. We understand that you may not be able to attend a FOCIS event every year- but that shouldn't inhibit you from gaining an immunology edge that only a FOCIS event can provide. FOCISed Online gives you the flexibility to view any of the lauded FOCIS courses and receive CME credits from your own home.
I encourage you to come and see for yourself what our organization has to offer. If you are just checking us out for the first time or are a long standing member of the organization, we hope you invest in yourself with a FOCIS membership. Visit the FOCIS website and see all the opportunities a membership has to offer including access to the ePublication Translational Immunology Update, waived abstract submission and reduced registration rates for the annual meeting and access to FOCISed Online (just to name a few benefits).
Most of all, mark your calendars for the premiere meeting in translational immunology FOCIS 2015, June 24-27, 2015 in San Diego, California. We look forward to engaging with you!
Host Member Society Symposia at FOCIS 2015
September Advanced Course in Basic and Clinical Immunology
Thank you to everyone who participated in FOCIS 2014, the first annual meeting held in the Midwest! Over 860 attendees, 450 abstracts and 29 sessions created an exceptional atmosphere for the meeting in translational immunology. Highlights of the conference included 11 symposia conducted by 14 FOCIS Member Societies and cutting edge keynote presentations from Drs. Daniel Kastner, Carl June and Rafi Ahmed.
Along with a decorated listed of speakers, 60 attendees were able to present their findings in thematic and oral abstract sessions while over 350 others participated in poster sessions throughout the week. Special thanks to the FOCIS 2014 Scientific Program Committee for their time and talent in putting together a stellar lineup of topics and speakers.
Dr. Bruce Richardson, M.D., Ph.D., of the University of Michigan was selected as the second recipient of the Lupus Insight Prize on June 25 at the 14th Annual Meeting of the Federation of Clinical Immunology Societies (FOCIS 2014). With the award funds, Dr. Richardson will identify the genes affected by environmental agents, and determine how environmental agents and diet cause these changes in lymphocytes.
Thank you to the following FOCIS Member Societies who hosted symposiums at FOCIS 2014:
The first ever FOCIS Foundation event "Innings for Immunology" was held on June 28th. Guests received a spectacular view of a Chicago Cubs game at legendary Wrigley field from the rooftop suites across the street. Many of the key opinion leaders from FOCIS were on-hand for the festivities and fun was had by all in attendance.
If you have a yet to receive your CME certificate, please contact This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. , Membership and Marketing Coordinator at (414) 359-1670 ext. 1116.
Submit your Abstract for FOCIS 2015!
FOCIS is the meeting in translational immunology that will give you a competitive edge in your career. FOCIS 2015 will be held June 24-27 at the Hilton San Diego Bayfront in San Diego, California. Mark your calendar for the most dynamic presentation of immunology that focuses on molecular pathways and their implications in human disease provides the unique opportunity for innovative thinking and apply ideas from the pathologies of other diseases to uncover novel solutions to challenges in the diseases you study.
Abstract submission, meeting registration, hotel reservations open November 3, 2014
Abstract submission deadline January 28, 2015
Exhibitor registration deadline March 13, 2015
Meeting registration deadline for poster presenters April 1, 2015
Late-breaking abstract submission deadline April 1, 2015
Headquarter hotel registration discount deadline June 1, 2015
Kevan Herald, MD
Elaine Reed, MD
Sign Up Now to Host Member Society Symposia at FOCIS 2015
All FOCIS Member Societies are encouraged to collaborate and host a symposium on Wednesday, June 24th as part of FOCIS 2015. This is a great way to highlight the latest advances in your field and to partner with other Member Societies to encourage cross-disciplinary education.
Past symposia have included:
Minimal Information about T Cell Assay – Association for Cancer Immunotherapy (CIMT) and Cancer Immunotherapy Consortium (CIC) of the Cancer Research Institute
Autoimmunity, Tolerance and the Gut Microbiota: Exploring New Connections – Americas Committee for Treatment and Research in Multiple Sclerosis (ACTRIMS) and Society for Mucosal Immunology (SMI)
Cord Blood Derived Cellular Therapies – American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation (ASBMT)
Personalized Treatment for Autoimmune Diseases and Transplantation – Association of Medical Laboratory Immunologists (AMLI) and American Society of Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics (ASHI)
Complete a Member Society Symposia Proposal form and submit it to This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. r by Monday, November 3rd. For more information, contact This email address is being protected from spambots. You need JavaScript enabled to view it. .
Immune Cells Annexin A1 Production Drives Keratinocyte Death in Toxic Epidermal Necrolysis
Hematopoetic Stem Cell Transplantation in Severe Combined Immunodeficiency
Treating Alopecia Areata with Janis Kinase Inhibitors
Reviewed by Michelle Hermiston, MD, PhD, University of California San Francisco
Peptibodies as a New Approach for Inhibiting Myeloid-Derived Supprressor Cells
Join Now for 2015 and Get the Remainder of 2014 Free!
September Advanced Course in Basic & Clinical Immunology
FOCIS would like to thank all those who attended the Advanced Course in Basic and Clinical Immunology held in Boston from September 14-17. This was the first offering of this course on the East coast and was met with rave reviews. 70 attendees gathered to learn from the world-renowned faculty and take advantage of the personal interaction with these leaders in immunology. A special thanks goes to the course directors for putting together such an informative course!
Mark your Calendar for the 2015 Advanced Course in Basic & Clinical Immunology!
Couldn't make it to a FOCIS meeting this year? Become a member to access FOCIS educational programming on demand, for free! The following courses are available through the FOCISed Online CME Portal:
The Health and Environmental Sciences Institute (HESI) is a non-profit institution, founded in 1989, whose mission is to engage scientists from academia, government and industry to identify and resolve global health and environmental issues. HESI provides the structure, credibility, and management necessary for successful collaboration amongst scientists from academia, government, research institutes, foundations, and industry to identify and resolve global health and environmental issues. Our scientific programs are conducted by multi-sector committees that organize, support, and execute projects, including collaborative laboratory research programs, workshops, conferences, literature reviews, the development and analysis of databases. These committees have substantial participation from academic and government scientists, and disseminate the products of their activities through peer-reviewed journals, monographs, and other print- and web-based publications.
Member Society Representative: Connie Chen, PhD and Prof. Herman Autrup, Board of Trustee Chair
Expand workgroup participation by presenting clinically relevant topics at a bi-monthly discussion seminars
Explore synergies and with FOCIS and their member societies in the area of clinical immunology monitoring
Nursing: policies and practices – Super Essays Help
Nursing: policies and practices
Review the national healthcare issue/stressor you examined (nurse shortage) and review the analysis of the healthcare issue/stressor (nurse shortage).· Identify and review two evidence-based scholarly resources that focus on proposed policies/practices to apply to your selected healthcare issue/stressor.Resources for paperCode of Ethics for Nurses With Interpretive Statements (View Only for Members and Non-Members)https://www.nursingworld.org/coe-view-onlyEthical Nursing Care Versus Cost Containment: Considerations to Enhance RN Practicehttp://ojin.nursingworld.org/MainMenuCategories/ANAMarketplace/ANAPeriodicals/OJIN/TableofContents/Vol-23-2018/No1-Jan-2018/Ethical-Nursing-Cost-Containment.htmlEthical Awareness: What It Is and Why It Mattershttp://ojin.nursingworld.org/MainMenuCategories/ANAMarketplace/ANAPeriodicals/OJIN/TableofContents/Vol-23-2018/No1-Jan-2018/Ethical-Awareness.htmlThe Assignment (4-5 pages):Developing Organizational Policies and PracticesThe new section should address the following:· Identify and describe at least two competing needs impacting your selected healthcare issue/stressor.· Describe a relevant policy or practice in an organization that may influence your selected healthcare issue/stressor.· Critique the policy for ethical considerations, and explain the policy's strengths and challenges in promoting ethics.· Recommend one or more policy or practice changes designed to balance the competing needs of resources, workers, and patients, while addressing any ethical shortcomings of the existing policies. Be specific and provide examples.· Cite evidence that informs the healthcare issue/stressor and/or the policies, and provide two scholarly resources in support of your policy or practice recommendations.:
Lire - Child and Youth Mental Disorders: Prevalence and Evidence-based Interventions - A Research Report for the British Columbia Ministry of Children and Family Development: Waddell, Charlotte, Shepherd, Cody, Schwartz, Christine - desLibris
Child and Youth Mental Disorders: Prevalence and Evidence-based Interventions - A Research Report for the British Columbia Ministry of Children and Family Development
Cody Shepherd,
This report summarizes recent high-quality research evidence on the prevalence of the major mental disorders affecting children and youth and on effective prevention and treatment interventions for addressing these disorders. According to estimates derived from recent well-designed prevalence surveys in other countries, as many as 12.6% of children and youth aged 4-17 years - or nearly 84,000 in British Columbia (BC) - are likely experiencing clinically significant mental disorders at any given time. These surveys also reveal stark service shortfalls in that under one third of young people with disorders - just 31% or 26,000 in BC - are estimated to be receiving specialized mental health services. Effective prevention programs are imperative to lessen the burden of avoidable mental disorders and to reduce the need for treatment services over time. At the same time, all children and youth with established disorders need to receive effective treatments to alleviate their distress, address their symptoms and reduce their impairment. For both prevention and treatment, there are numerous interventions showing positive outcomes based on rigorous studies in children and youth. Effective prevention programs range from cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) (for anxiety and major depressive disorders) to parent training (for substance use and conduct disorders). Effective treatments range from CBT (for anxiety, major depressive and substance use disorders) to parent training (for conduct disorder) to medications (for attention-deficit/hyperactivity and bipolar disorders, as well as schizophrenia).--Executive summary.
Children's Health Policy Centre, Simon Fraser University
Child mental health - British Columbia., Youth - Mental health - British Columbia., Child mental health services - British Columbia., Youth - Mental health services - British Columbia.
Study shows poor health care for minority patients - Austin Weekly News
Study shows poor health care for minority patients
New study reveals disparities in physician care, Medicaid reimbursements for minorities
by Shannon Donohoe and Medill News Service April 23, 2008 February 10, 2021
Low Medicaid payments are threatening the quality of health care for many minority patients and is contributing to racial disparities in health care, according to a new study released last Tuesday.
The physicians treating high numbers of minority patients report having inadequate time with patients and numerous other problems.
Their findings were released in a study last week in "Health Affairs," a medical journal on health policy.
In conducting the report, researchers first identified physicians in low-, medium- and high-minority practices. They found that a relatively small number of physicians, 12 percent, had practices that treated more than 70 percent minority patients.
Those physicians, the study found, typically earn less, treat more patients and receive lower private insurance payments.
The study concluded that, "low [Medicaid] payments may be leading primary care physicians to reduce the time spent with patients and generally diminish their ability to function effectively as their patients' medical home."
The Center for Studying Health System Change, based in Washington, D.C., conducted the report, which was funded by the Commonwealth Fund.
"Increasing Medicaid reimbursements to providers that are on par with Medicare [for seniors] or private insurance could reduce the disparities," said James D. Reschovsky, senior researcher for Health System Change. "One could [also] direct subsidies to physicians who choose to treat patients in high minority and low income areas."
Increasing Medicaid reimbursements could help move the United States toward a high-performance healthcare system, said Dr. Anne C. Beal, assistant vice president of the Commonwealth Fund.
The Health Affairs report is based on findings from Health System Change's 2004-05 Community Tracking Study Physician Survey, as well as from the U.S. Census Bureau. The study included information from 3,320 primary care physicians, such as general internists, family/general practitioners and pediatricians.
"I think the primary contribution of the article is to illustrate how racial and ethnic disparities are a function of broader systemic disparities in our society," Reschovsky said. "Due to the fact that minority and low-income people are geographically concentrated, they are treated by a small number of physicians."
Other factors, such as language barriers and increased numbers of patient visits a day also contributed to the poor quality of care minority patients receive. Physicians in high-minority practices spent 30 percent less time with patients compared to patients seen at low-minority practices.
"Those physicians tend to squeeze more patients in, in the course of an hour," Reschovsky said. "Bottom line is that some disparities in health care are attributable to the resource base of the physician practice."
Those physician's practices received more than a third of their revenue from Medicaid-more than twice that of physicians with less than 30 percent minority patients.
Furthermore, the study found that 35 percent of primary care physicians in high-minority practices reported patients' inability to pay as a major problem.
"The other major way to reduce disparities is to expand health insurance coverage for people who are currently uninsured," Reschovsky insisted. Those people, he said, "tend to be minorities and low-income individuals."
Three Stages to COVID-19 Brain Damage Identified by Top Neurologists in Journal of Alzheimer Disease Paper Baseline MRIs Encouraged for COVID Patients
English 日本語 한국어
Industry Economy TECH GAME
Society Comfort AUTO MEDIA
Three Stages to COVID-19 Brain Damage Identified by Top Neurologists in Journal of Alzheimer Disease Paper Baseline MRIs Encouraged for COVID Patients
Wednesday, June 10, 2020, 10:33 am
ACROFAN=Businesswire
webmaster@businesswire.com
WASHINGTON--(BUSINESS WIRE)--#ADHD--The Journal of Alzheimer’s Disease has just published a paper with a comprehensive review of the COVID-19’s effect on the nervous system which classifies brain damage caused by COVID-19 into three stages. One of the authors, nationally-recognized neurologist Dr. Majid Fotuhi, MD, PhD, who is the medical director of NeuroGrow Brain Fitness Center in Northern Virginia and an affiliate staff at Johns Hopkins Medicine, encourages the adoption of this three-stage classification, calls for more research on COVID's long-term effects on the brain, and stresses the need for patients to receive a brain MRI before leaving the hospital.
“We are learning that a significant number of hospitalized COVID-19 patients have various degrees of brain impairment. As a medical community, we need to monitor these patients over time as some of them may develop cognitive decline, attention deficit, brain fog, or Alzheimer’s disease in the future. There is a lot we can do to promote brain healing in COVID-19 patients, but first we must understand the nature and severity of their neurological deficits. At the patient level, getting a baseline MRI before leaving the hospital is imperative so that we have a starting point to evaluate and treat them,” explained Fotuhi.
In the just published paper, Dr. Fotuhi and his colleagues warn about neurological issues in patients who suffer from COVID-19, including stroke, seizures, confusion, dizziness, paralysis, and/or coma. Already, two dozen case reports are revealing the impact of COVID-19 on the brains of patients. In fact, one study from Wuhan, China, showed that 45% of patients with severe COVID-19 illness experience marked neurological deficits. Another study from France showed 84% of ICU patients with COVID-19 have positive abnormalities on their neurological examination, and that 15% of patients who leave the ICU have residual “dysexecutive function,” which involves poor attention and difficulty with decision-making and controlling behavior.
The paper proposes the adoption of a three stage “NeuroCovid” classification scheme to provide a basis from which to build on future hypotheses and investigations regarding SARS-Cov2 and the nervous system. These stages include:
NeuroCovid Stage I: The virus damage is limited to epithelial cells of nose and mouth and the main symptoms include transient loss of smell and taste.
NeuroCovid Stage II: The virus triggers a flood of inflammation, called cytokine storm, which begins in the lungs and travels in the blood vessels throughout all body organs. This cytokine storm leads to the formation of blood clots which cause small or large strokes in the brain.
NeuroCovid Stage III: An explosive level of cytokine storm damages the blood brain barrier, the protective insulation layer in blood vessels of the brain. As a result, blood content, inflammatory markers, and virus particles invade the brain and patients develop seizures, confusion, coma, or encephalopathy.
Fotuhi points out that many patients with COVID-19 may have no noticeable neurological symptoms at first; but in some cases, patients may present with neurological symptoms even before they have fever, cough, or shortness of breath. In addition to having an MRI while at the hospital, he stresses that patients will need to be monitored in a few months after their hospitalization.
“Our experience with previous forms of coronaviruses suggest that in the long-term patients may develop depression, insomnia, Parkinson’s disease, memory loss, or accelerated aging in the brain,” elaborated Fotuhi. “For those recovering from COVID-19, I recommend regular exercise, eating a heart healthy diet, reducing stress, and improving sleep; these are critical ways patients can rejuvenate their brain and minimize having poor outcomes in the future.”
These interventions, along with targeted brain training and neurofeedback therapy, are the main features of Dr. Fotuhi’s 12-week Brain Fitness Program. As published in the Journal of Prevention of Alzheimer’s Disease (2016), 84% of elderly with cognitive impairment who complete this brain rehabilitation program gain improvements in their brain function and many of them experience growth in the parts of their brain for learning and memory. These findings were similar for patients who gained recovery from their persistent post-concussion syndrome. The program will now be tailored for patients suffering from post-COVID neurological issues.
A Harvard- and Johns Hopkins-trained neurologist and neuroscientist, Dr. Fotuhi is widely regarded as an authority in the field of memory, Alzheimer’s Disease, concussion treatment, ADHD, and increasing brain vitality at any age.
Contacts
Shawn Flaherty, 703-554-3609
[ Copyright © Acrofan/Business Wire All Right Reserved ]
TECH
AUTO
[CES 2021] LG Emphasized "Needs to Innovate Beyond Boundaries Between Fields in the New Normal Era" Through Future Talk
Research Assistant in Cellular Metabolism
Research Assistant in Cellular Metabolism - Hiring in process/Finished, not possible to apply
Project: Tumor cells display metabolic profiles that are remarkably distinct from their tissue of origin to ensure fulfillment of their higher bioenergetic/biosynthetic needs required to support a rapid proliferation. The mechanisms underlying this metabolic reprogramming are divergent among tumors.
Duties: The main responsibilities for the Research Assistant will be to support the group's work through organizational, administrative and research-related activities. The administrative duties will be related to handling orders/deliveries, preparing documentation for different types of applications and permits, organizing data documents and maintenance and calibration of instruments.
The Research Assistant will be involved in several projects that have a central focus to profile and characterize metabolism of tumor and normal cells. The candidate will also perform experiments including cell culture, bacterial culture, Western Blot, PCR among other techniques.
It is expected that the applicant participates in project meetings, as well as contribute to other common lab duties.
The candidate must hold a Masters Degree in the field of biomedicine, biology, biochemistry or similar. The candidate should be self-motivated and be eager to learn and take on new tasks in a dynamic research environment. The candidate should have good communications skills and a proven ability to interact effectively and work productively in an inter-disciplinary group. The research assistant must have excellent organizational skills, be able to plan and perform the expected work. The candidate should be accurate and flexible, and have the ability to work under deadlines as well as being able to multitask. Good spoken and written English is a requirement.
Dr. Karla Solis a Holistic or Biological Dentist This episode of the Heal Podcast covers biological dentistry with Dr. Karla Solis. The health of your teeth directly correlates with the health of the whole body because of the teeth’s direct access to the bloodstream. After learning this fifteen years ago, I realized how important it […]
Daily Dental Routine as a Lyme Warrior
Over the course of my healing journey, I have learned throughout my healing journey is how important the health of your mouth is in overcoming chronic illness. Your dental care needs to go beyond brushing. The health of your gums directly impacts your immune system because any infection goes immediately into the blood stream. So […]
