Revision as of 11:00, 6 June 2011 (view source)
(→‎LAB 10: Lab Practical)
(→‎Conference With Your Lab Instructor)
==Conference With Your Lab Instructor==
This week or early next week, schedule a time for your team to have a 30 minute conference with your instructor to clear up any questionable aspects of your data analysis and to get any questions answered as you prepare for your presentation. Please come in your poster presentation groups of 3 or 4 students to your lab instructor's office. '''Have a draft of all of the figures your plan to show in your poster and have a written summary of your discussion points and conclusions.''' There will be time for you to ask questions but, primarily, think of this conference as articulating a preview of your poster.<BR><BR>
Revision as of 11:00, 6 June 2011
In LAB 11 we will not have a formal lab. Instead, We will have another Science Writing & Presentation Workshop to prepare you for writing up your semester long investigation as an original research report (NOT AS A TRADITIONAL LAB REPORT!!) and to help you and your teammates (soil sampling groups) prepare to present a "virtual poster" in Lab 12. At the end of the Data Analysis lab today, we will brainstorm some potential topics for you to choose for this oral presentation. Some suggestions and things to think about in choosing your topic are found in Lab12
Prepare for your group "virtual" poster presentation. In LAB 11, teams of 3-4 students will prepare and present a powerpoint slide in the style of a poster that would be presented informally and talked about at a scientific research conference. You and your partners will not print the poster and stand by it at a conference but, instead, you will show it to the class "virtually" on a projection screen and use it in a 20-30 minute group oral presentation that is worth 25 points, based on the assessment of the class and your instructor of the poster and the presentation's quality. However, you will also be assessing the quality and level of participation of your peers for a potential loss of no more than 10 individual points from the 25 point total. This individual grade is determined by the consensus of your group members on each member's contribution. The contribution grade includes the data collection, data analysis, and the preparation of the poster and presentation. Grading rubrics will be provided. You will also be provided with links and handouts of helpful information about making a poster. There is a folder in SAKAI: RESOURCES: Virtual Poster Presentation with useful information including examples of effective posters to look at from the following web site: | http://www.ncsu.edu/project/posters/examples/. The Resources section of the wiki contains a tip sheet prepared by the PLTC oral presentation peer-tutors about how to give an effective oral presentation. We will not do these presentations in the lab but in a room TBA. Please make sure that you email your powerpoint to yourself in First Class as an attachment before lab time so we can access it on the computer in the presentation room. Email a copy to your instructor, too.
Discard and clean up any remaining tests and cultures. Note that there are 5 bonus points awarded for perfect clean-up. Your instructor will explain the "rules" for obtaining these bonus points.
Make peace with your prostate | Collin County Urology
← Erectile dysfunction? Talk it up	Celebrate Men's Health Month, before it's too late → Posted on June 15, 2016
As men age, they probably don't understand what the point is to having a prostate. It was essential in the days that they were having babies, but they don't need it for that anymore. And it's not necessary for erections. So it might seem like all it does these days is cause problems. Here are some things you should know about this (annoying) gland and how you can learn to live with it in peace as you age.
What's with all the trips to the bathroom?
For reasons still unclear, the prostate continues to grow bigger as a man grows older, and this can cause a noticeable change in urinary frequency. The issue is present in about half of all men by age 60 and in almost all men by age 80. The condition is called benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH).
The urinary symptoms can be treated with prescription medications, specifically:
Alpha-blockers, which works by enlarging the urethral channel and relaxing its muscle fibers
5-alpha-reductase inhibitors whichcan shrink the gland by 1/3 of its size and help reduce urination
A surgical procedure can help by removing excess prostatic tissue, often preformed with a laser.
Your chances of developing prostate cancer increase as you age. Prostate cancer only rarely causes symptoms, but in most cases, they're still caught early enough for cure rates to be quite high. Prostate cancer is much more slow-growing than other cancers, and you're actually nearly 10 times more likely to die of heart disease.
There are things you can do to help prevent it:
5-alpha-reductase inhibitors have also been shown to reduce the occurrence of low-grade prostate cancer by 25%.
Get treatment as soon as you experience urinary symptoms, and get screened for prostate cancer between the ages of 55 to 70. Call for your appointment today: 972-403-5425.
Archbishop Joseph Kiwanuka Mayirye Health center – Sisters of Immaculate Heart of Mary Reparatrix – Ggogonya
Archbishop Joseph Kiwanuka Mayirye Health center is a private (not for Profit organization which was started as simple dispensary in 1983 in Kiyinda Mityana Diocese. The Health center is administered by the sisters of the Immaculate Heart of Mary Reparatrix (IHMR) Ggogonya. The pioneer sisters were the late Sr. M. Ludovico, late Sr.Ann Lucy and Sr. Angela Namutebi. They are appreciated for their great work of founding this health centre.
It was created to make health service accessible to be people in the area who were unable to reach other health premises that were relatively far from their places of residence.
Because of the established schools around the area, the unit was started to offer service to the schools.
Originally the unit was providing only out- patient service but later the Maternity Unit, laboratory Unit and in- patient service were introduced.
Mayirye Health Centre is found in Kakindu sub-county, Busujju county Mityana-District. One branches off from Zigoti, Kampala Mityana road then takes Zigoti-Kibibi road. Reaching Kakindu town, one turns right to Ngugulo road then right behind Bethany High school, is where St. Joseph's Mwera Health center is located.
The Health center is currently administered by Sr. Maria Gorret Nabunnya the matron and a clinical officer, assisted by Sr. M. Crispine Namayanja, Sr. M. Rose Nabawanda is the Labaratory assistant and Sr. Maria Goretti Nambalirwa the Cashier. All staff members are residents at the health center premises.
To provide a wide range of services to patients and pregnant women
To promote health by implementing the minimum heath care package
HEALTH SERVICE RENDERED:
The health center has the following departments
We hope to equip the wards and outpatient department with solar to cut the prices of electricity. This solar will provide light constant light to our in-patients and will also improve on the quality storage of some drugs.
Given funds we would wish renovate all buildings present and also construct an ART clinic and establish the Doctor's residence.
There is need to Fence off the whole health facility for proper security purposes.
There is a need to construct a theatre to expand the services and bring it nearer to the people as they are referred to Ggombe and Mityana hospitals which are very far from the community
Global push to eliminate confusion on lung function tests
A global research network established with the goal of improving the diagnosis of lung disease has taken another step towards standardising the way doctors interpret commonly used lung function tests.
In a study published this week in the European Respiratory Journal, members of the Global Lung Function Initiative (GLI) Network, which includes the Telethon Kids Institute, studied the lung function of more than 12,000 people across 14 countries in a bid to create definitive guidelines for doctors using the TL,CO test.
Telethon Kids' Head of Children's Lung Health and study co-author Associate Professor Graham Hall said the test was an important tool in the diagnosis of lung disease and was also used to monitor patients, including children, undergoing certain kinds of chemotherapy which can affect lung health.
However, doctors had struggled to interpret results of the tests due to conflicting advice over what represents the 'normal range' of lung function in different types of patients.
The TL,CO test – the single breath transfer factor of the lung for carbon monoxide (TL,CO) – measures CO gas transfer in the lungs and is a strong indicator of the efficiency of gas exchange in the lungs.
It is the second most commonly used test for determining whether lung function is normal or problematic.
"Over time there have been dozens of different attempts to define the normal range of lung function, with no consensus reached, and doctors have had to choose which information to rely on," Associate Professor Hall said.
"For example, there was no agreement on which information was best for children, adults, or the various ethnic groups. This has hampered clinicians' ability to get a true picture of an individual patient's lung function."
Hoping to create one consistent set of reference information, GLI researchers from Canada, the Netherlands, China, Mexico, the UK and Australia collected data from 19 centres in 14 countries and examined the lung function measurements of 12,659 non-smoking individuals aged between 4 and 91.
Using this data, they were able to establish reference equations representing the normal range of lung function for Caucasian populations across all ages.
Associate Professor Hall said the results represented a significant move towards achieving globally standardised interpretation of what was a key weapon in the fight against lung disease.
"Ultimately, these new standards will end up defining normal for every patient who gets referred to do this test in Australia, New Zealand, and globally," he said.
"We'll now continue to work with our partners and collaborators to obtain multi-ethnic reference equations."
Associate Professor Hall, who was a founding member of the GLI when it was established in 2008, said the network – comprised of hundreds of scientists across five continents – had become the largest resource for reference equations for routine lung function testing ever assembled. Its work was a clear demonstration of research being translated into practice.
"Prior to this study the GLI had already managed to establish new standards for the most common lung function test, spirometry," he said.
"The spirometry guidelines are now mandated in Australia and New Zealand and recommended in Asia, North America and Europe, and it won't be long before the same happens for TL,CO tests.
"It's a great example of altruistic collaboration between researchers, health professionals and industry partners – all united in a desire to improving outcomes for patients with lung disease."
The newly published paper, Official ERS Technical Standards: Global Lung Function Initiative Reference Values for the Carbon Monoxide Transfer Factor for Caucasians, can be read in full here.
Having two children is best for your health - Telegraph
Having children is good for your health – but only if parents stop after they have had two. The research published in the Social Science & Medicine Journal found that two children was the optimum number, in terms of parents' health Photo: ALAMY	By Laura Donnelly, Health Correspondent
8:22AM GMT 13 Mar 2010
A mass study has found that becoming a mother or father reduces the risk of a wealth of conditions and health risks – from cancer and heart disease to becoming an alcoholic. However the research on 1.5 million people found the benefits were only clear for men and women who had two children. Those who had just one child, or none at all, were at increased risk of death from almost all the conditions studied, perhaps because they were less likely to look after their health. Those with larger families also had a higher chance of suffering from many diseases, perhaps because they struggled to cope with the stresses of looking after several children. The research published in the Social Science & Medicine Journal found that two children was the optimum number, in terms of parents' health. Related Articles
The analysis by British and Norwegian researchers examined the records of Norwegian men and women born over a 33 year period. It found those who had no children, or just one, had an increased risk of dying from almost every condition, with a particularly strong link with alcohol abuse. Among women, there was a higher likelihood of accidents and heart and circulatory disease while men more commonly suffered lung and respiratory problems. Those with three children had mixed health fortunes, but parents of two fared best overall. Those with larger families did almost as badly as those with none or one child – but for different reasons. Cervical cancer featured prominently among mothers of four, while father of large families were more likely to suffer violence and accidents. There were some benefits for women with several children, whose odds of breast cancer were reduced. Researcher Emily Grundy, of the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine said: "Four-plus children might have adverse effects arising from stress, socio-economic disadvantages and lifestyles, offsetting or even outweighing social benefits of parenthood". Health News
New regulations for law dealing with prescription drug abuse move forward : Bluegrass Politics
New regulations for law dealing with prescription drug abuse move forward
FRANKFORT — A legislative review panel signed off on several new regulations Monday that govern the implementation of a controversial 2012 law to tackle Kentucky's prescription drug abuse problem.
The regulations for the so-called "pill mill bill" dealt with a variety of issues, ranging from standards for prescribing certain medications to disciplinary hearings and continuing education for doctors.
The Administrative Regulation Review Subcommittee approved 12 proposed regulations — 10 offered by the Kentucky Board of Medical Licensure and two by the state Office of Inspector General in the Cabinet for Health and Family Services — for last year's House Bill 1.
The law was designed to halt doctors and pain management clinics that push addictive pills for profit rather than good medical care. It expanded Kentucky's prescription monitoring system and required that any new pain clinic must be owned by a licensed medical practitioner.
But some health care providers said legitimate medical care got entangled in the new law. They contended that the law sometimes forces doctors to jump through needless hoops while they try to provide quick medical care in hospitals.
The regulations review panel's chairman, Sen. Joe Bowen, R-Owensboro, said the rules adopted by the subcommittee now will go to the legislature's health and welfare committees for consideration in the 2013 General Assembly session that begins Tuesday.
"We're just one little speed bump in the road in this regulations process," said Bowen of his panel. "All of this will go through the legislative process in the session."
Rep. Bob Damron, R-Nicholasville, said he was willing to support the licensure board's proposed regulations if its officials committed to working with lawmakers in the 2013 session.
Rep. Jimmie Lee, D-Elizabethtown, and Rep. Johnny Bell, D-Glasgow, said they were concerned that the law has had the unintended consequence of hurting people who actually need pain medication.
Bell noted that heroin is "now flowing into this state" and producing more drug addicts.
The lawmakers said some doctors have stopped prescribing pain medications because they feel "criminally threatened" by the law.
Bill Doll, a lobbyist for the Kentucky Medical Association, said the law does present "a threatening environment" for doctors concerned about criminal liability and expressed hope that the 2013 law-making session can address those concerns.
Dana-Farber Doctors Report Back After Big Chicago Cancer Conference | Radio Boston
Dana-Farber Doctors Report Back After Big Chicago Cancer Conference08:42
<iframe width="100%" height="124" scrolling="no" frameborder="no" src="https://player.wbur.org/radioboston/2015/06/05/dana-farber-cancer"></iframe>
Patient Carole Linderman hugs Dr. Massimo Cristofanilli before her blood is drawn for a liquid biopsy. (Jacqueline Larma/AP)
Earlier this week, a huge conference on the future of cancer treatment finished up in Chicago. You might call the American Society of Clinical Oncology's annual meeting the splashiest cancer conference of the year.
Two doctors from the the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute — one of the best known cancer treatment and research centers, right here in Boston — are coming back to town with big news from the front lines of cancer research with new information that's especially relevant to each of their specialties.
Dr. Jochen Lorch, thyroid cancer specialist at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute's Head and Neck Treatment Center. He works with targeting tumors by their genetic mutations.
Dr. Patrick Ott, clinical director of the Center for Immuno-Oncology at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute.
CommonHealth: Cancer Immune Therapy Headed For More Widespread Use
"Cancer immune therapy — an approach that harnesses the body's own disease-fighting system — is saving more patients with more types of cancer, and scientists are getting better at predicting who will benefit, studies released over the last few days show."
The Wall Street Journal: U.S. Cancer Study To Match Existing Drugs To Genetic Mutations
"The National Cancer Institute is launching a major trial in which it will play matchmaker between 1,000 advanced cancer patients and the growing cadre of drugs that can target tumors by their genetic mutations, not just where they occur in the body."
Satisfaction attributes related to safety and quality perceived in the experience of hospitalized patients. | Rev Gaucha Enferm;41(spe): e20190152, 2020. | MEDLINE
Satisfaction attributes related to safety and quality perceived in the experience of hospi
Satisfaction attributes related to safety and quality perceived in the experience of hospitalized patients.
Costa, Diovane Ghignatti da; Moura, Gisela Maria Schebella Souto de; Moraes, Mariana Goes; Santos, José Luís Guedes Dos; Magalhães, Ana Maria Müller de.
Rev Gaucha Enferm ; 41(spe): e20190152, 2020.
Artigo em Inglês, Português | MEDLINE | ID: mdl-31778385
To unveil patient satisfaction attributes related to safety and quality of care.
Qualitative study carried out in a public university hospital in the south region of Brazil. Data were collected in November 2018 through 24 interviews with patients/families from 12 clinical and surgical hospitalization units. Thematic analysis was carried out.
The satisfaction attributes were categorized in terms of structure, process, and care outcome, and they were related to: access to the service, amount of personnel, environment, interaction with the health team, staff's technical competence, perception of safety with the presence of a relative, assistance patterns present in the care, and change in the health status of the patients.
It was verified that the structural aspects were relevant in the patient's experience, besides the relationship established with the health team in the care process, and the technical assistance standards perceived in the staff's work.
http://dx.doi.org/10.1590/1983-1447.2020.20190152
http://www.scielo.br/scielo.php?script=sci_arttext&nrm=iso&lng=pt&tlng=pt&pid=S1983-14472020000200404
Texto completo: Disponível Coleções: Bases de dados internacionais Base de dados: MEDLINE Idioma: Inglês / Português Revista: Rev Gaucha Enferm Assunto da revista: Enfermagem Ano de publicação: 2020 Tipo de documento: Artigo País de afiliação: Brasil
my coloured mare managed to roll in mud with no rug on What is the best way of removing stains?? Is she gonna freeze if i bathe her with warm water, is there any other way of getting the stains out? New to this as only ever had bay horses lol. Help!!!!
a lady at my old yard used to use colgate toothpaste on her grey mare leav it on for a bit then waash it off with warm water? , never tried it myself but i think it worked
lol! Only trouble is shes 16.2hh and cobby and quite a bit of white (all of which is now brown), might have to take out shares in colgate! Wierd though, was it the teeth whitening variety?!!!
The adjuvant, recombinant subunit vaccine - sold under the brand name Shingrix - was found to be 85 per cent more effective in reducing cases of shingles, also known as herpes zoster, compared to Zostavax, which is a live-attenuated shingles vaccine available for use in Canada since 2006.
"There haven't been any head-to-head studies comparing the two shingles vaccines, so the results from our systematic review can be employed by policy-makers, clinicians, and patients to make their decisions on the use of these vaccines," said Dr. Andrea Tricco, a scientist with St. Michael's Hospital's Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute and associate professor at the University of Toronto's Dalla Lana School of Public Health.
A team of cardiologists and computational biologists from the University of Tokyo have found that single cells within the heart are affected by high blood pressure in different ways.
The study has shown, for the first time, that some heart muscle cells fail in the presence of high blood pressure, while others adapt to cope.
Cells that were able to adapt were generally thicker than healthy cells and required more energy to function, but they were able to support the beating of the heart.
These results are the first to show that some cells fail and others adapt to high blood pressure within the same heart. I am very interested in the increased activity of genes that are important for making energy in the cell."
As reported in the journal Nature Communications, the researchers identified groups of genes that were either more or less active when heart cells coped with high blood pressure.
They focused on one gene called p53, which demonstrated increased activity when cells failed to adapt.
Scientists suspect that p53, which is already known to respond to DNA damage and maintain cell proliferation, may send the cells along a path of either failing or succeeding to adapt to the increased pressure.
The team analysed the gene activity in hundreds of individual cells taken form mice and heart surgery patients.
Referred to as single-cell transcriptome analysis, studying gene activity in this way can reveal the differences that exist between individual cells from the same subject.
Researchers at the university’s laboratories will now go on to explore the cell signaling that links p53 to the paths of either failing or adapting in the presence of high blood pressure.
Nomura says given that scientists are already able to reprogram adult cells into induced pluripotent stem cells (their immature state), he is confident that eventually it will be possible to reprogram failing heart cells into adaptive heart cells.
In the future, cardiologists may be able to prompt cells to adapt to the increase blood pressure seen in hypertension, heart attack or a narrowed aorta in order to prevent heart failure occurring.
"But the method may be used by all researchers wanting to apply metabolomics in their studies," says Matej Orešič, researcher in medicine at örebro University.
By applying this method used by the örebro researchers, it is possible to analyse some 2,000 metabolites from one blood sample. Metabolites are microscopic molecules, for example amino acids, lipids and sugar molecules, formed as a result of metabolism.
"Collecting data is an important part of the analysis but doesn't always require as much time as the actual data analysis. That's when this large amount of collected data will need to be linked to with biological and medical questions," says Tuulia Hyötyläinen, Professor of Chemistry at örebro University.
https://www.oru.se/english/news/orebro-researchers-studied-connection-between-intestinal-bacteria-and-development-of-diabetes--method-now-published/
A bench comprising Chief Justice Ranjan Gogoi and justices S K Kaul and K M Joseph dismissed at the threshold, the four appeals filed by the convicts against the Patna High Court judgement.
New Delhi: The Supreme Court has upheld the conviction and sentence of former MP and RJD leader Mohammad Shahabuddin and three others in a 2004 double murder case in which two brothers were killed for not paying extortion money.
A third brother, Rajiv Roshan, who was an eyewitness to the incident in which Shahabuddin's men allegedly threw acid to kill the two brothers, was shot dead on June 6, 2014.
Roshan was killed when he was going to depose against Shahabuddin in the trial court despite threats from the don and his henchmen.
On December 9, 2015, a special judge had convicted Shahabuddin and his associates for the murders and sentenced them to life imprisonment.
She added: "I rarely look back, but when I do, it's moments that for sure are going to be with me all my life. But I'm not one to worry to much about records -- I never have done.
The last man to win the calendar-year Grand Slam was Australia's Rod Laver in 1969 -- when he achieved the feat for a second time.	
An intervention to save the tiny Northern Cape town of Sutherland from collapsing has begun, Gift of the Givers said on Friday.
The humanitarian organisation's Imtiaz Sooliman said five Gift of the Givers trucks would be delivering the first 200 bales of fodder on Friday afternoon.
"All 200 boreholes in Sutherland have dried out, as the water levels have dropped significantly consequent to the worst drought in 100 years in the area."
Sooliman said Gift of the Givers' drilling team would arrive with two rigs on Monday, followed by the delivery of 40 000 litres of diesel in the evening, paid for by his organisation, to start the drilling process for 200 new boreholes.
"The process will be led by our hydrologist, Dr Gideon Groenewald, and driller Martyn Landmann. Dr Groenewald – hydrologist, geologist, palaentologist with 35 years experience in the field – will commence siting of new borehole positions on Monday morning. The entire borehole process will cost Gift of the Givers R15m."
"This will be followed by food parcels, blankets, hygiene packs and warm clothing for the farm labourers, the general population and school children (who will be provided with 5 000 specially formulated nutritious meals). Any support for our initiatives are welcome."
The Gift of the Givers Foundation is the largest disaster relief organisation of African origin on the African continent. We have delivered over R2 billion in aid to 42 countries around the world, including South Africa. We have designed and developed the worlds first and largest containerised mobile hospital, which was deployed in Bosnia.
(P126) Student Institute to Stimulate Interest in Radiological Sciences Academic Careers (SISIRSAC): A Novel Near-Peer Mentoring Approach | Cancer Network
Charles R. Thomas, Jr., MD, James A. Tanyi, PhD; Department of Radiation Medicine, Oregon Health & Science University
Introduction: The World Health Organization predicts that 26.4 million new cancer cases will be reported in 2030 alone. Between 2010 and 2020, the number of patients receiving radiotherapy will increase by 22%. Assuming that the current graduation rate of 140 residents/year remains constant, the number of full-time equivalent radiation oncologists is expected to increase only 2%. The number of residents would have to increase to 280/year for the years 2014–2019 to equal expected demand. For these reasons, it is necessary to establish an effective mentoring paradigm in radiological science, not just for medical students (MS) but also for high school (HS) and college undergraduate (UG) students, to promote a greater general awareness of the study of oncology as well as its therapeutic implementation.
Methods: Research experience in the Department of Radiation Medicine provides full-time summer and/or year-round research educational experience to HS, UG, and MS interns. Interns are paired in a "near-peer" fashion-that is, a junior or less experienced student matched with a senior or more experienced student. Each pair is subsequently matched with an experienced faculty preceptor. All interns spend a minimum of 10–12 weeks working full time in the preceptor's laboratory. Preceptors are encouraged to involve interns as much as possible in all facets of the research process, such as reading relevant literature and participating in regularly scheduled lab meetings and journal clubs, research seminars, and multidisciplinary tumor boards. Didactic sessions on how to conduct scientific research and program evaluation from learners will be a core of the program.
Results: From 2007–2013, the department has mentored and sponsored a total of 50 students (excluding graduate, postdoctoral, and/or international students). A proud feature of the department's mentorship program is that HS interns, like their UG and MS counterparts, are active participants who contribute significantly in the preparation of scientific abstracts for national/international conferences, as well as in the drafting of scientific manuscripts. While most HS interns typically start on short-term projects, they understand that research questions may not necessarily be answered in a limited time period. Nine of our HS students have coauthored at least one scientific abstract and/or peer-reviewed manuscript; three HS students successfully competed in regional and/or national science fairs, one UG intern was a laureate of the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM) Summer Research Fellowship, three UG interns have successfully earned college credits for their research, six MS have successfully secured competitive Research Medical Student Grant awards from the Radiological Society of North America (RSNA), and one MS was a Tartar Trust Fellow.
Conclusion: Based on the success of our current program, we will submit an R25 that will specifically meet the goals for the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Cancer Education Grant Programs initiatives through the following specific aims: Aim 1: To increase the number of students with an interest in cancer and radiation research by identifying and selecting HS and UG students and MS with strong interests in cancer and emphasize recruitment of women and underrepresented minorities into the program. Aim 2: Create and implement a structured mentored research and educational experience with emphasis on radiological sciences, near-peer mentorship, and dyadic mentorship.
