LPN, CLINICAL CONCIERGE - Bismarck jobs
LPN, CLINICAL CONCIERGE The Clinical Concierge is responsible for registering, collecting payments, rooming, assisting the provider with care and treatment, discharging, and following-up with patients. It is the role of the Clinical Concierge to companion patients and their "secondary guests" through the entire experience to maximize clinical excellence, reduce treatment times, and maximize the patient experience; before, during, and after the patient visit. The Clinical Concierge is responsible for assisting the provider with front office and back office duties in the outpatient management of patients on a rotating basis. This position is a vital part of the office team that cares for patients in the clinic setting working under the direction of the manager and the on-duty provider and works closely with the provider and other clinical staff. Additionally, the Clinical Concierge is responsible for a variety of clinical functions within a clinic setting requiring knowledge and integration of available standards, resources, and data; discretion; good judgment; diplomacy; decision making; and a customer service attitude. Acting as the patient advocate, the Clinical Concierge has continuous contact with providers, patients, patient families/significant others, community agencies, and patient care staff and management. Current LPN in the state of ND, or LPN in a compact state. Basic Life Support Certified. 1 year of clinic or hospital experience preferred. Additional Information Requisition ID: Schedule: Full-time Shift: Rotating Market: CHI St. Alexius Health
Keywords: Catholic Health Initiatives, Bismarck , LPN, CLINICAL CONCIERGE, Healthcare , Bismarck, North Dakota
Eat a high-fiber diet. Balch says that you should eat plenty of fruits and vegetables and make them a staple of your diet because not only are they a great source of fiber, they are also filling and very nutrient-dense, naturally low in sodium and low in calories. It recommended that eating brown rice, millet, lentils, buckwheat and oats for their high-fiber, high-nutrient content and that you should aim for a daily intake of between 30 and 50 g of fiber and suggests taking oat bran, ground flaxseed, pectin, guar gum or rice brain supplements in order to meet this requirement. Fiber is important because it will reduce free radicals in your body by promoting regular elimination. It will also help to keep you full longer, which is beneficial for obtaining the healthy weight that is necessary for an optimally healthy heart.
Ideally, sodium and chloride, which make up salt, should not be higher than potassium; the optimal ratio is five parts potassium to one part sodium and chloride. However, most people consume too much salt in their diets, which leads to an imbalance of electrolytes and fluid levels and, in some people, increased blood pressure. You should increase your potassium intake because potassium play an important role in regulating your blood pressure. To restore a healthy electrolyte balance, eat more potassium-rich foods. It shouldn’t be a difficult dietary change considering that many foods contain potassium. Some of the best sources include bananas, citrus fruits, avocados, lima beans, salmon and chicken. Most fruits and vegetables are good sources of potassium, and tomatoes, spinach and broccoli are also excellent sources.
Foods that contain lycopene, such as tomatoes, pink grapefruit, watermelon and guava, may also be beneficial for lowering blood pressure. In a study published in the “American Journal of Hypertension” in 2001, Israeli researchers found that lycopene significantly reduced systolic blood pressure by an average of 9 millimeters of mercury, or mmHg, and diastolic blood pressure by 7 mmHg. The researchers add that by reducing blood pressure, lycopene may also be able to reduce related cardiovascular problems.
These essential fatty acids found in foods and cold water fish such as sardines, salmon, herring, mackerel, walnuts, flaxseed, Coconut oil and olive oil can also help regulate blood pressure, according to the International Study of Macro- and Micro-nutrients and Blood Pressure published in the journal “Hypertension” in 2007, the researchers concluded that these nutrients may play a role in preventing and controlling blood pressure levels.
Vegetables provide magnesium, potassium and fiber, which are important nutrients when trying to lower your blood pressure. Choose 4- to 5 cup servings daily from a variety of vegetables including broccoli, potatoes, sweet potatoes, spinach, kale, tomatoes and squash. If you consume vegetable juice, make sure you choose the low sodium variety.
Choose from a variety of fruits to help meet your magnesium, potassium, and fiber needs. Bananas, apples, berries, melons, peaches, pineapples, mango, and citrus fruits are good choices. Consume four to five servings each day. Choose fruit over juice to make sure you are getting fiber and controlling your calorie intake. If you choose juice, make sure it does not have added sugar.
Calcium has also been shown to be effective in lowering blood pressure in hypertensive individuals. Calcium is required for vascular contraction and vasodilation. Dairy products are a rich source of calcium, including low-fat milk, cheese and yogurt. Eat two to three servings per day, including 1 cup of milk or yogurt and 1 1/2 g of cheese. If you do not consume dairy products, talk to your doctor about taking a supplement.
Consume six to eight servings of whole grains each day. Whole grain provides fiber, which can help to lower blood pressure. It’s been reported that replacing refined carbohydrates, like white flour and sugar, with any type of whole grain, including brown rice, whole grain cereals and breads, barley and oats, will reduce blood pressure.
Protein is an important nutrient to lower blood pressure, but the type of protein is an important consideration. Fatty fish, like salmon, provide omega-3 fatty acids, which are reported to be slightly hypotensive according to the American Heart Association. It suggests consuming a variety of fish twice a week.
How to Create and Moderate a Great Problem Based Learning Discussion (PBLD) - publication - ADEA
How to Create and Moderate a Great Problem Based Learning Discussion (PBLD)
9371 March 14, 2013 9
This Problem-Based Learning module is designed to facilitate group discussion with the integration of existing knowledge and new knowledge by self-directed learning. It addresses the rationale and benefits of case-based learning, differentiates problems suitable for case-based learning from those more appropriate for a case report, provides a framework for participants to construct an engaging PBLD from a brief stem, and outlines best practices for moderating a PBL discussion. After the case presentation, the instructor guides the group through a series of questions, each of which promotes discussion and reviews the recommended strategies for the relevant aspect of the teaching method.
The idea for this Problem-Based Learning Discussion is based on Workshops co-directed by the author at the Society for Education in Anesthesia Annual Meeting in 2011, and the Society for Pediatric Anesthesia (SPA) Winter Scientific Meeting in 2012. It was also presented at the International Assembly of Pediatric Anesthesia and the American Society of Anesthesiologists Annual Scientific Meeting (ASA), in Washington DC in 2012.
It was created as a result of the author's experiences as a member of the review committee for PBLDs for the SPA and ASA. Members of the committees regularly reject approximately 70% of submissions mainly as a result of the poor quality of submissions. The commonest error is the submission of a problem that is narrow in scope with no potential for discussion and a complete lack of controversy. Disseminating the basic tenets of creating and moderating engaging PBLDs via workshops and PBLDs is seen by the author as one way to improve the quality of case-based teaching in academic departments, as well as the quality of conference submissions.
By the conclusion of this learning module, participants will be able to:
Describe the rationale for case-based group learning.
Recognize the characteristics of a case or problem ideal for case-based learning.
Differentiate between a case appropriate for a Medically Challenging Case Report and a PBLD.
Construct an engaging PBLD from a brief case stem.
Formulate a set of best practices for moderating a PBLD.
PBL Discussion, PBL, Group Moderation
For presentation in it's original workshop format at the 2011 Society for Education in Anesthesia Meeting and the 2012 Society for Pediatric Anesthesia Meeting.
It has also been accepted for presentation as a PBLD at the International Assembly of Pediatric Anesthesia Meeting and the American Society of Anesthesiologists Annual Scientific Meeting, both in Washington DC in October 2012.
Workshop Director: "How to Develop and Moderate a Successful PBLD" (along with Dr. Sally Raty). Society for Education in Anesthesia Conference (SEA), October 2011.
Workshop Director: "How to Develop and Moderate a Successful PBLD" (along with Dr. Nancy Glass). Society for Pediatric Anesthesia Winter Scientific Meeting, February 2012, Tampa, Florida
Problem Based-Learning Discussion: "How to Write and Moderate a great PBLD". American Society of Anesthesiology Annual Scientific Meeting, Washington DC, 2012.
Problem Based-Learning Discussion: "How to Write and Moderate a great PBLD". International Assembly of Pediatric Anesthesia, Washington DC, 2012.
Kirk Lalwani, MD, FRCA
Anesthesia for Endoscopic Repair of Laryngeal Cleft in a Former Premature Infant
Anesthesia for Thoracoscopic Repair of Esophageal Atresia and Tracheoesophageal Fistula in a Neonate
General Anesthesia for a Laparoscopic Nissen Fundoplication in an Infant After Norwood Repair for Hypoplastic Left Heart Syndrome
How to start off a research essay tphgo
How to Write a Graduate-Level Essay If academic writing is a distant memory for you, or perhaps something you've never done, the prospect of starting to research and write an academic essay can be intimidating. Starting Your Critique Essay - ProfEssays.com Starting Your Critique Essay When starting your critique essay, take care not to start with your introduction —this part should give the reader a general view of what is to come. This is difficult to do if you don't have the body of your essay yet.
This is the highest quality essay writing service. Our process is simple and convenient. Get work just as you want within time. We give good guarantees and have Native Essay Writers USA We Care About Quality Of Your Papers The best cheap custom essay writings service collaborates only with professional essay writers. Our native, experienced paper writers does work of any complexity. We guarantee that you will be satisfied. Finding the Best Essay Writing Service - EssaysRescue
How To Start Off A Good Essay - buyworktopessay.org
How to Start a Research Paper Outline. Creating your research paper outline marks the official beginning of the writing process. This outline is a critical section of the research paper as it offers a tool for organizing thoughts and ideas before you begin working on the main body. How to Write a Critical Analysis Essay - PapersOwl.com Steps to Writing an Excellent Critical Analysis Essay. It starts with an engaging sentence that catches the reader's attention. Outline the main ideas of the piece along with the author's thesis and presents your own thesis statement and begins the discussion of your topic. BODY. Develops a discussion. How to Start a Research Paper Outline - theessayclub.com
9 Jan 2019 ... Writing a research paper doesn't have to be painful and frustrating. ... So figure out what sort of paper you'd like to write, and then come up with ...
Types of Papers: Compare/Contrast - roanestate.edu Unless you're being asked to do some research as part of your compare/contrast project, make sure that you choose 2 things that you feel comfortable discussing, at length. Your instructor may ask for multiple similarities and differences--make sure you're prepared to write a well-developed, meaningful essay on a topic that you know well before ... M401: How to Write a Music History Paper The research paper assignment asks you to write a paper of the second type, not the first. Here you must try to come up with something to say about your topic--and again, only one thing. THIS IS THE MOST IMPORTANT PART OF YOUR PAPER! Notice that in a research paper you are not writing a "report." Instructions for Writing a Critical Thinking Essay
How to Write a Research Paper - A Research Guide for Students STEP 1. How to start research topic? STEP 2. Find information; STEP 3. Make your thesis statement; STEP 4. Make research paper outline; STEP 5. Oganize your notes; STEP 6. Write your first draft; STEP 7. Revise your outline draft. Checklist One; Checklist Two; STEP 8. Type final paper How to Start (and Complete) a Research Paper - TIP Sheet ... HOW TO START (AND COMPLETE) A RESEARCH PAPER. You are a re-entry student and it's been fourteen years since you've written a paper. You coasted through high school on your charm and good looks and never actually wrote a research paper. You have written research papers, but every time is like the first time, and the first time was like a root canal. How to Write a Research Introduction (with Sample Intros) You can start your introduction with a few sentences which announce the topic of your paper and give an indication of the kind of research questions you will be asking. This is a good way to introduce your readers to your topic and pique their interest. [1] Learn How to Write a Introduction for a Research Paper ...
How to Write a Technical Essay | Career Trend Like with academic research papers, start off with a compelling title that describes the question you seek to answer or the methods you're going to describe, then begin with a section titled "Abstract" that details your question or method, your process of inquiry and your conclusion, all in a brief paragraph of a few sentences. How To Start Off A Research Paper |Dating Chat How To Start ... How To Start Off A Research Paper ⚤the best online dating site How To Start Off A Research Paper. Seniors Meeting Seniors Website Dating Directory Dating Chat online dating apps, Dallas Dating Site ,Best Senior Dating Sites Singles Events How To Start Off A Research Paper is the top dating site. Sample Argument Essays - Mesa Community College Argument Essay #1 - By Chris Polito. Argument Essay #2 - By Lynn Streeter. Argument Essay #3 - By Jonathan Elosegui. Argument Essay #4 - Deserae Peck. Argument Essay #5 - Bonnie Fellhoelter. Argument Essay #6- Mark Lyles AGAINST School Vouchers. Argument Essay #7 - Mark Lyles FOR School Vouchers. Sample Argument Essay #1
How To Start Off A Research Paper |Dating Chat How To Start ... How To Start Off A Research Paper ⚤the best online dating site How To Start Off A Research Paper. Seniors Meeting Seniors Website Dating Directory Dating Chat online dating apps, Dallas Dating Site ,Best Senior Dating Sites Singles Events How To Start Off A Research Paper is the top dating site.
Dublin at center of new genome mapping project | IrishCentral.com
Dublin home to massive new genome mapping project
Dublin-based Genomics Medicine Ireland (GMI) has announced a $400 million investment into a human genome project in Ireland
Dublin will play a big role in mapping the genome Shutterstock
New genetics study will bring jobs to Dublin
Dublin-based Genomics Medicine Ireland (GMI) has announced a $400 million investment into a human genome project.
The Irish Times reports that with the investment, GMI will bring some 600 jobs to Ireland's capital city over the next 5 years, adding to their current employee count of 125.
GMI is anticipating on hiring primarily from Irish colleges, or Irish emigrants who have returned to Ireland.
GMI expects to have sequenced 100,000 genomes from volunteers – both healthy and sick – within two years. It plans to target up to 60 major diseases in the research program.
"Speed is important here," said Anne Jones, the newly appointed chief executive of GMI.
"It is a reasonable target and we have to be working to these targets because time to market is key for drug companies."
Jones said the investment puts Ireland on course to become a global hub for genomics and the development of new disease treatments and cures.
As part of the investment, GMI hopes to map the genes of up to 1 in 10 Irish people as part of a private sector program. The research will be the building blocks of a database that will help drug companies better target treatments.
Read More: Irish DNA could help crack some of the world's worst diseases
The Irish investment comes only shortly after it was announced that GMI would be acquired by WuXi Nextcode, Chinese genomics specialists who were involved in mapping the genetic makeup of both Iceland and Chinese city WuXi.
Rob Brainin, chief executive of WuXi Nextcode, said: "What we are able to do in conjunction with GMI is something that really will accelerate implementation of precision medicine into the healthcare system."
"The challenge in Iceland was that there were not enough people with disease to be able to have a powered dataset whereas in Ireland it is big enough to have scale. Ireland presents a unique opportunity."
Jean David Caprace presentations | SlideShare
Jean David Caprace
Geschäftlich Professor at Federal University of Rio de Janeiro Editor in Chief of Marine Systems & Ocean Technology (MSOT)
Webseite http://orbi.ulg.ac.be/browse?type=author&value=Caprace,%20Jean-David%20u196674
Info An outstanding and dynamic young research engineer in ship design and production exhibiting versatility, ingenuity and innovation in challenging situations. A person with strong intellectual curiosity who believes in simple and practical solutions. Possesses a passion for excellence and a pragmatic leadership style with good analytical skills in result driven conditions. Seven years of experience in ship design and optimisation through several international and European research projects conducted by shipyards. Possesses overall understanding of different aspects required by the marine actors. Member of internationally recognised ISSC congress. Experienced in the field of design and prod...
Europe Acne Treatments And Kits Industry Analysis, Strategies & Growth - BizPR.ca | Canadian Free Press Release and Distribution Centre
The Europe Acne Treatments And Kits Industry 2016 Deep Market Research Report is an in-depth market report prepared by market analysts with valuable inputs from industry experts. The report offers an in-depth insight into the key market status, current and future market trends, business profile of key market players, market challenges along with the strategies adopted by key market players to gain a stronghold in the market. The analysis covers the changing market dynamics in terms of covering basic parameters such as product classification, applications, end-users, and cost/revenue structure. Crucial information on R&D status and technology sources of key market players of Europe Acne Treatments And Kits industry is offered in the report. Furthermore, the study offers a detailed analysis of key market growth drivers and restraints along with impact analysis of the same. Get Sample Copy Of Report @ http://www.bigmarketresearch.com/report-enquiry/526904
Purchase a copy of this United State Quantum Dot Sales Market research report at USD 3600 (Single User License): http://www.bigmarketresearch.com/purchase-enquiry/526904 Table Of Content
1.5 Industry Overview of Acne Treatments & Kits
2.1 Bill of Materials (BOM)of Acne Treatments & Kits
2.2 BOM Price Analysis of Acne Treatments & Kits
2.4 Depreciation Cost Analysis of Acne Treatments & Kits
2.7 Europe Price, Cost and Gross of Acne Treatments & Kits 2011-2016
3.2 Manufacturing Plants Distribution of Europe Key Acne Treatments & Kits Manufacturers in 2015
3.3 R&D Status and Technology Source of Europe Acne Treatments & Kits Key Manufacturers in 2015
3.4 Raw Materials Sources Analysis of Europe Acne Treatments & Kits Key Manufacturers in 2015
Complete Report Is Available @ http://www.bigmarketresearch.com/europe-acne-treatments-and-kits-industry-2016-deep-research-report-market About Company :
acne treatment, big market research, Medical Device Search	Upcoming Events	There are no upcoming events at this time.
benadryl dosage for 1 yr old - meyoke.com
Home » Online » benadryl dosage for 1 yr old
In addition to the clinical trial with hypertensive patients, albuterol inhalation company this P3.AI platform powered the eCOVID app used in a clinical trial of patients with moderate cases of COVID-19 in San Diego. The same methodology, though a slightly different platform, was used to predict depression and recommend personalized mental health treatment, to participants in a UC San Diego School of Medicine study.
"This personalized model is not just a trove of data—its much smarter than that," said Sujit Dey, professor of electrical and computer engineering at UC San Diego, and director of the Center for Wireless Communication, who is leading this P3.AI (Proactive, Personalized and Precise Insights and Recommendations using AI) project. "It's trying to learn your habits in terms of sleep, activities, nutrition, stress level and mood, and how this is all correlated to your mental health or chronic conditions like blood pressure."
"Instead of telling you 10 different generic things to do, and encouraging you to totally change your life— which is often what hypertensive patients are currently told— this system will recommend one or two specific actions for you to take that would be most effective for you, and will show you with easy to interpret data how effective the changes are. Since your model will keep changing with your lifestyle changes and personal conditions, the specific recommendations may also change over time. We've seen again and again that general guidance leads to poor compliance; this system is capable of providing the personalized, explainable recommendations needed."
The platform works by fusing together data from a variety of sources— fitness trackers, sleep trackers, mobile apps and questionnaires, blood pressure cuffs and more— transmitted at a variety of timescales, from every millisecond to daily or weekly— and in a variety of modes, including numerical data points, photos, written text, and more. Finding a way to sync all of this data into one site and make it interpretable was one of three key challenges that engineers tackled when developing P3.AI.
Role of the Swedish Research Council - Vetenskapsrådet
Role of the Swedish Research Council Clinical research within the ALF agreement
You can apply to the Swedish Research Council for funding for clinical therapy studies and other clinical research. We also reinforce clinical research in other ways: we coordinate the healthcare regions, evaluate clinical research, make it easier to use register data for research purposes and provide support to biobanks, networks and other research infrastructures.
Clinical research is a prerequisite for knowledge-based, equal healthcare. It makes it possible to develop and evaluate medicines and other forms of therapy on evidence-based grounds. For this reason, clinical research must be an integral part of health and medical care activities.
Clinical research cannot be isolated from other medical research. It is based on translational research: in other words, there is mutual exchange between basic research, the health of the individual (the patient) and various research infrastructures within healthcare. Issues identified within healthcare form a starting point; treatment or diagnosis of a certain disease, for example. The objective is to enable research results to be applied in healthcare more quickly.
We fund clinical research
The Swedish Research Council funds clinical therapy studies together with Sweden's regions. We issue calls for funding for clinical therapy research every year. To be awarded funding, therapy studies must be based on needs in health and medical care. These studies are also expected to lead to benefits for patients and society within a relatively short period of time.
The Swedish Research Council's Committee for Clinical Therapy Research decides which applications will receive funding.
The Swedish Research Council also uses calls in the fields of health and medicine to fund clinical research other than research relating to therapy studies. Every year, we announce a number of grants for half-time researchers in a clinical environment Within the scope of special Government initiatives, we also issue calls for grant within healthcare research and research in the fields of psychiatry, ageing and health, and infection and antibiotics, for example (link to the call page.
The Swedish Research Council's Scientific Council for Medicine and Health decides which applications will receive funding.
We coordinate and support clinical research prerequisites
The Swedish Research Council has established a collaboration between Sweden's six healthcare regions in order to coordinate, support and develop prerequisites for clinical studies. Better coordination means that clinical studies can be implemented more effectively. This also allows more patients to participate in them, no matter where they live in Sweden.
Within the scope of this collaboration, which goes by the name of Clinical Studies Sweden , the various healthcare regions have each appointed a collaboration function, a regional node. These nodes assist with national collaboration and help to reinforce the prerequisites for the conduct of clinical studies within the region in question.
The Swedish Research Council's Committee for Clinical Studies decides on the general focus of the collaboration and is responsible for the funding allocated for its development. Our clinical studies unit works to support and develop the collaboration within Clinical Studies Sweden.
The Swedish Research Council runs a website – registerforskning.se – that describes how researchers can use register data in their research. We provide information on the rules that govern the use of register data in research, and we have also developed a tool that makes it easier to search registers and analyse the meanings of the variables in the registers. This tool goes by the name of Register Utiliser Tool (RUT) (link).
Swedish Research Council is working together with the Council for Register Data and other important stakeholders to improve the accessibility of register data for research purposes.
Infrastructure with links to clinical research
The Swedish Research Council helps to fund the Biobank Sweden biobank infrastructure. The aim of Biobank Sweden is to make it easier for researchers to access biological samples and the data linked to those samples. The Swedish Research Council helps to fund a number of research infrastructures linked directly and indirectly to clinical research and life sciences.
Cooperation network for collective competence
The Swedish Research Council aims to support national cooperation networks for clinical research linked with health and medical care. The aim is to increase the exchange of knowledge and combine all competence in the field of clinical research – researchers' competence, the competence found within health and medical care, among patients and users, and in industry.
We evaluate clinical research
ALF is an abbreviation for an agreement between national government and seven regions. This agreement regulates matters such as the amount of state funding received by the regions to help with the training of doctors, implementation of clinical research and development of health and medical care.
The Office for ALF at the Swedish Research Council provides administrative support to the national steering group for ALF and coordinates the Swedish Research Council's evaluations of clinical research in the regions covered by the ALF agreement.
The Swedish Research Council, via the Office for ALF, is responsible for collecting and reporting on follow-up statistics on clinical trials in the regions covered by the ALF agreement. These statistics shall provide a general overview, contribute to the development and provide background material for future ALF evaluations. In parallel with this, we have also been tasked with ensuring access to statistics relating to clinical studies taking place in Sweden outside the ALF agreement.
Statistic on clinical studies
Development within clinical studies
Research project grant, Starting grant, Grant for half-time research position in a clinical environment, and Development of methods to replace, reduce and refine animal experiments (3R) within medicine and health.
Drug Study - Cap | Gastroesophageal Reflux Disease | Nonsteroidal Anti Inflammatory Drug
saveSave Drug Study - Cap For Later
Nej Mo a 1205544
Drug Study in ENT
MEDICATION (include dosage, route & frequency) Generic Name: Meloxicam Brand Name: MEL-OD 15 mg, PO, OD DRUG CLASSIFICATION MECHANISM OF ACTION SIDE EFFECTS/ADVERS E REACTIONS headache, dizziness, somnolence, rash, pruritus, sweating, nausea, GI pain, diarrhea, vomiting, dysuria, renal impairment, bleeding, platelet inhibition, dyspnea, hemoptysis NURSING RESPONSIBILITIES CONTRAINDICAT IONS AND CAUTIONS Contraindicated with allergy to aspirin or meloxicam; for perioperative pain after coronary artery bypass surgery. Use cautiously with allergies, renal, hepatic, CV, GI conditions; bleeding disorders
Relief from the s/sx of osteoarthritis & rheumatoid arthritis Relief from the s/sx of particular or poly articular coarse juvenile rheumatoid arthritis inpatients 2yr or older
Anti-inflammatory; analgesic & antipyretic activities related to inhibition of the enzyme cyclooxygenase(COX) , which is required for the synthesis of prostaglandins & thromboxanes. Somewhat more selective for COX-2 sites than for COX-1 sites which are found throughout the tissues & are related to protection if GI mucosa.
1. Administer drug with food or milk if GI upset occurs. 2. Establish safety measures if CNS disturbances occur. 3. Monitor patient prolonged therapy or signs of bleeding or hepatic toxicity. 4. Provide further comfort measures to reduce pain & reduce inflammation. 5. Establish safety measures if CNS disturbances occur.
MEDICATION (include dosage, route & frequency) Generic Name: Ceftriaxone Brand Name: Rocephin 1 gram, IVTT, q 8 hrs DRUG CLASSIFICATION MECHANISM OF ACTION Inhibits bacterial cell wall synthesis, rendering cell wall osmotically unstable, leading to cell death SIDE EFFECTS/ADVERS E REACTIONS Leukopenia, serum sickness, anaphylaxis, Phlebitis, rash, diarrhea, vomiting. NURSING RESPONSIBILITIES 1. Instruct patient to take medication as prescribed for the length of time ordered even if he feels better. 2. Teach patient to report sore throat, bruising, bleeding and joint pain. 3. Advise patient to watch out for perineal itching, fever, malaise, redness, pain, swelling, rash, and diarrhea. 4. Assess patients previous sensitivity reaction to penicillin or other cephalosporin. 5. Obtain C&S before beginning drug therapy to identify if correct treatment has been initiated. CONTRAINDICAT IONS AND CAUTIONS Hypersensitivity to cephalosporin and penicillin, lidocaine or any other local anesthetic product of the amide type
Treatment of LRIT (e.g. bronchitis, pneumonia, bronchopneumonia, emphysema, lung abscess), skin and soft tissue infections. Preoperative prophylaxis to reduce chance of post-operative surgical infections
MEDICATION (include dosage, route & frequency) Generic Name: Albuterol Sulfate Brand Name: Salbutamol 1 neb, inhalation, q 6 hrs DRUG CLASSIFICATION MECHANISM OF ACTION SIDE EFFECTS/ADVERS E REACTIONS NURSING RESPONSIBILITIES CONTRAINDICAT IONS AND CAUTIONS Contraindicated with hypersensitivity to albuterol; tachyarrhythmias, tachycardia caused by digitalis intoxication; general anesthesia with halogenated hydrocarbons or cyclopropane (these sensitize the myocardium to catecholamines); unstable vasomotor system disorders; hypertension; coronary insufficiency, CAD; history of stroke; COPD patients with degenerative heart disease.
Relief and prevention of bronchospasm in patients with reversible obstructive airway disease Inhalation: Treatment of acute attacks of bronchospasm Prevention of exercise-induced bronchospasm
In low doses, acts relatively selectively at beta2-adrenergic receptors to cause bronchodilation and vasodilation; at higher doses, beta2 selectivity is lost, and the drug acts at beta2 receptors to cause typical sympathomimetic cardiac effects
Restlessness, apprehension, anxiety, fear, cardiac arrhythmias, tachycardia, palpitations, sweating, pallor, flushing, nausea, vomiting, heartburn, respiratory difficulties, pulmonary edema
1. Use minimal doses for minimal periods; drug tolerance can occur with prolonged use. 2. Maintain a betaadrenergic blocker (cardioselective betablocker, such as atenolol, should be used with respiratory distress) on standby in case cardiac arrhythmias occur. 3. Prepare solution for inhalation by diluting 0.5 mL 0.5% solution with 2.5 mL normal saline; deliver over 515 min by nebulization. 4. Do not exceed recommended dosage. 5. Report chest pain, dizziness, insomnia, weakness, tremors or irregular heartbeat.
MEDICATION (include dosage, route & frequency) Generic Name: Levofloxacin Brand Name: Levaquin 500 mg, IVTT, OD DRUG CLASSIFICATION MECHANISM OF ACTION SIDE EFFECTS/ADVERS E REACTIONS NURSING RESPONSIBILITIES CONTRAINDICAT IONS AND CAUTIONS Contraindicated with allergy to fluoroquinolones. Use cautiously with renal dysfunction, seizures.
Treatment of adults with communityacquired pneumonia, acute maxillary sinusitis caused by susceptible bacteria Treatment of acute exacerbation of chronic bronchitis caused by susceptible bacteria
Bactericidal: Interferes with DNA by inhibiting DNA synase replication in susceptible gramnegative and grampositive bacteria, preventing cell reproduction.
Headache, dizziness, insomnia, fatigue, nausea, vomiting, dry mouth, elevated BUN, AST, ALT, serum creatinine, fever, rash, photosensitivity
1. Arrange for culture and sensitivity tests before beginning therapy. 2. Continue therapy as indicated for condition being treated. 3. Ensure that patient is well hydrated during course of therapy. 4. Discontinue drug at any sign of hypersensitivity (rash, photophobia) or at complaint of tendon pain, inflammation, or rupture. 5. Monitor clinical response; if no improvement is seen or a relapse occurs, repeat culture and sensitivity test.
MEDICATION (include dosage, route & frequency) DRUG CLASSIFICATION MECHANISM OF ACTION SIDE EFFECTS/ADVERS E REACTIONS Headache, dizziness, asthenia, vertigo, insomnia, apathy, anxiety, paresthesias, rash, inflammation, urticaria, pruritus, alopecia, dry skin, diarrhea, abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, constipation, cough, epistaxis NURSING RESPONSIBILITIES CONTRAINDICAT IONS AND CAUTIONS Contraindicated with hypersensitivity to omeprazole or its components.
Generic Name: Omeprazole Brand Name: Losec 40 mg, IVTT, OD
Anti-secretory drug Proton pump inhibitor
Short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer; First-line therapy in treatment of heartburn or symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD); Short-term treatment of active benign gastric ulcer; GERD, severe erosive esophagitis, poorly responsive symptomatic
Gastric acid-pump inhibitor: Suppresses gastric acid secretion by specific inhibition of the hydrogenpotassium ATPase enzyme system at the secretory surface of the gastric parietal cells; blocks the final step of acid production.
1. Administer before meals. 2. Administer antacids if needed. 3. Have regular medical follow-up visits. 4. Report severe headache, worsening of symptoms, fever, chills. 5. Report any changes in urinary elimination such as pain or discomfort associated with urination, or blood in urine.
