WHO refutes efficacy of 'mix and match' of different vaccines - Nepal24Hours.com - 'Integration Through Media' Nepal24Hours.com – 'Integration Through Media'
KATHMANDU:- The World Health Organization (WHO) has refuted the claims that a 'mix and match' regimen of Vero Cell and AstraZeneca CoviShield Vaccine would yield more effective results.
Issuing a press release, WHO clarified that it has not issued any such statements and the attribution is false. "Such misinformation can lead to grave consequences for the public", reads the press release.
Data on the efficacy of 'mix and match' of vaccines remains limited. While studies are ongoing regarding the interchangeability between vaccines and more evidence is needed regarding interchangeability of the second dose of AstraZeneca with Vero Cell vaccines before conclusions can be made, stated the release.
Constantine E. Kanakis MD, MSc, MLS(ASCP)CM is a first-year resident physician in the Pathology and Laboratory Medicine Department at Loyola University Medical Center in Chicago with interests in hematopathology, transfusion medicine, bioethics, public health, and graphic medicine. He remains a board-certified Medical Laboratory Scientist, one of ASCP’s 2017 Top 40 Under Forty, and was named to the 2020 Pathologist Power List. He studied Molecular Biology, Bioethics, and Political Science at Loyola University and Medical Laboratory Science at Rush University. His graduate research focused on hematopoietic stem cell transplants and engraftment; he has worked as a generalist, transplant/transfusion senior, QA/QC and education coordinator, and hematology technologist. He has contributed to public health abroad leading arbovirus prevention and detection and is a certified CAP inspector. With ASCP he holds the Advanced Certificate in Medical Laboratory Management through Lab Management University (LMU), has been featured in ASCP’s Stories from the Heart Series, and has been recognized nationally with the ASCP Medical Student Award and grants. He is also on the ASCP Social Media #SoMeTeam and is a new member of ASCP’s Commission for Continuing Professional Development. Dr. Kanakis was recently named to the ASCP Patient Champions Advisory Board and the American Red Cross Auxiliary Board in Illinois. He also delivered a TEDx talk entitled “Unrecognizable Medicine,” he is active on social media in the pathology community (@CEKanakisMD) and has penned numerous blogs on LabMedicine.com as well as illustrated features called “Path Doodles.”
Xin Yi, PhD, DABCC, FACB is a board-certified clinical chemist. She currently serves as the Co-director of Clinical Chemistry at Houston Methodist Hospital in Houston, TX and an Assistant Professor of Clinical Pathology and Laboratory Medicine at Weill Cornell Medical College.
Becky Socha, MS, MLS(ASCP)CMBBCM graduated from Merrimack College in N. Andover, Massachusetts with a BS in Medical Technology and completed her MS in Clinical Laboratory Sciences at the University of Massachusetts, Lowell. She has worked as a Medical Technologist for over 40 years and has taught as an adjunct faculty member at Merrimack College, UMass Lowell and Stevenson University for over 20 years. She has worked in all areas of the clinical laboratory, but has a special interest in Hematology and Blood Banking. She currently works at Mercy Medical Center in Baltimore, Md. When she’s not busy being a mad scientist, she can be found outside riding her bicycle.
Transcript - Airing Pain 125: Opioid-Induced Constipation - Pain ConcernPain Concern
Looking at the side effects of opioids for chronic pain management
This edition of Airing Pain has been funded by an educational grant from Kyowa Kirin.
Issues covered in this programme include: Opioids, abdominal pain, amitriptyline, bowels, constipation, side effects, fatigue, fibromyalgia, IBS: irritable bowel syndrome, neuromodulators, painkillers, pelvic pain, stomach pain, stool and tricyclic antidepressants.
Paul Evans: This is Airing Pain, a programme brought to you by Pain Concern, the UK charity providing information and support for those of us living with pain, and for those who care for us. I'm Paul Evans, and this edition of Airing Pain has been funded by Kyowa Kirin. In a recent edition of Airing Pain – that is number 123, which is still available to download, we looked at issues around the use and overuse of opioid-based medications for the management of chronic pain. One of the contributors in that programme was Dr Cathy Stannard, an internationally recognised expert on aspects of pain management, and particularly opioid therapy. I'll just remind you something she said in that programme.
Cathy Stannard: Do you think the medicines are making much difference? And there is a dawning realisation that it's just like taking Smarties. [That's] something that we commonly hear. We know that patients are fearful of reducing because of course, if your pain is bad, and you're on medicines, what if it's worse [off medicines]? It's very difficult, and it depends on the individual's perceptions and so on. But we do have evidence from a huge number of patient reports that, freed from the many burdensome side effects, people feel much more alert, able to engage with their families and engage themselves in strategies which help manage their pain. So we know that most of the medicines that we prescribe for pain which actually stop the way that nerves talk to other nerves do have side effects which make people sleepy, sedated, giddy and so on. And all those things make it very difficult to start trying to manage people's lives to try and mitigate the effects of long term pain.
Evans: That was Dr Cathy Stannard, reminding us from an earlier edition of Airing Pain of some of the issues and side effects experienced by those prescribed opioid-based medications for the management of their chronic pain. Well, in this edition of Airing Pain, I want to look at another side effect that's – judging by the volume of calls Pain Concern's helpline received – is of particular concern to those using opioid-based medications for the management of their chronic pain, and that is constipation.
Maria Eugenicos: 27% of the constipated patients may relate their constipation to medications. In my last clinical audit, I found that approximately 30% of the patients who present with constipation would be on opioid treatments for [a] chronic pain condition.
Evans: This is Dr Maria Eugenicos. And as we recorded this interview during the Covid-19 crisis – socially distanced, of course, via a video conference line – there are references to the crisis in 2020. So Dr Eugenicos asked is a clinician gastroenterologist and senior lecturer at the University of Edinburgh and Edinburgh's Western General Hospital. She specialises in functional gut disorders.
Eugenicos: Constipation is defined by several criteria that may include difficult, painful defecation, incomplete bowel-emptying, decreased frequency of emptying [and] manual manoeuvres. And by definition for functional constipation, this should be the diagnosis if there is insufficient criteria to make a diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome, as in functional constipation. And usually, when we do diagnose constipation, people do not present with loose stools, but with hard, lumpy stools, and may present with loose stools only in the presence of laxatives, if they have been using laxatives probably [due to] their symptoms.
Evans: One question we have to ask is, what does regular mean? What [are] regular bowel movements?
Eugenicos: If I were to reverse the question, I suppose, I would say, 'Is it abnormal to have less than one bowel movement per day?' And that perhaps is not necessarily the case, in that when [we] have done a study questioning healthy controls, then their frequency of bowel movements varied from three times per week to six times per week. So just frequency does not define constipation. But if the decreased frequency is associated with several other criteria already mentioned, like straining, difficult emptying, painful emptying, then perhaps this allows you to make the diagnosis of constipation. If you compare that with patients with constipation, the majority of patients with constipation would admit to frequency [of] less than once per week. That's the majority of patients – about 60% of these patients. About 20% of patients would say once a week, [and] maybe 5% would say twice a week.
So yes, the majority of patients with constipation would have decreased bowel [movement] frequency. The patients with constipation are a great healthcare burden, in that, in previous studies, 80% of the patients attended community nurses requesting treatment for their constipation. So if we track admissions to hospital, where perhaps the primary endpoint, if you like, would be constipation, then it amounts to 70,000,000 in recent studies. The consultant or GP consultations with regard to treatment for constipation management may amount up to 30,000,000 per year, so it's not a dismissive cost. And furthermore, patients who may suffer from constipation may call more often absent from their work – absenteeism is quite high.
Evans: So how much of a problem is opioid related constipation?
Eugenicos: Now, the opioid related constipation, it is sometimes hard to define, because in a recent study that we performed, we found that patients may be started on opioids without prior inquiring about their symptoms. What we know [is] that 27% of the constipated patients may relate their constipation to medications. Now, opioids are not the only medication that may cause constipation, but it's the most common medication that [is] prescribed and does cause [constipation]. So it's not a negligible amount either. Only 46% of patients with constipation may present with a primary, the rest of them are on secondary. So when we have tried to identify how many of the patients develop constipation, once they have started opioids, it was difficult to define because we did not have that information. For those patients that we had the information – it was about 34% [who] may not have had any symptoms whatsoever, and may develop constipation, following opioids.
From anecdotal evidence, though, we know that if we do not treat the constipation, if we do not address that, and people continue to be opioids, then they may develop opioid induced constipation further down the line. And this is what sometimes may perhaps affect the patient's judgement to say, 'But I have been on opioids and they didn't [cause] the symptoms in the beginning, [but] now I've developed the symptoms.' It could be cumulative effect, because the patient may start on a low dose of the opioids, and then they may increase the dose and then may develop further symptoms.
Evans: How do you address that with a patient coming to you saying, 'I have constipation, and I'm on opioids', and they've already made that link between them – whether it's a correct link or not? How do you address it?
Eugenicos: That may vary depending on the cause of why the patient was started on the opioids in the first place. Education of patients is very important in these cases. So we try to explain to the patient that the opioids in the treatment of pain perhaps are most successful for the acute pain situation. Yes, we do offer opioid treatment for patients who have got cancer pain, but for chronic conditions, perhaps it's better to try other neuromodulators rather than go directly to the opioid, for the particular reason that constipation itself may cause pain. So we may be aggravating the 'syndrome' – if you like, in inverted commas – of pain, because we're trying to address one type of pain by replacing [it] with something else. I would go through their lifestyle [and] try to address lifestyle measures, and we address their diet [and] their liquid intake. I advocate water – hot water regimes, [as well as] regulating the bowel habits. Trying to make the bowel habits predictable is very important. Exercising, physical activity, the position on the toilet to facilitate relaxation of the pelvic floor, avoiding straining – all of these play a role [in managing constipation] and we try to identify those.
Once a patient though, has been referred to my clinic, which is [specifically] a tertiary referral clinic, almost always they would have been tried on other medications. So, we do not only address the lifestyle measures, we would address what medications they have, what doses have they had [of] these medicines. And we are addressing this with the simple laxatives – osmotic laxatives, which is the first choice of treatment, or other similar laxatives if they have had something like that. And if they have not been responding to these, then we would go on to prescribing specialist medications to contract the opioid effect on the bowel motility. [There is] a new opiate receptor antagonist that we have got available, which can be prescribed orally, and the patient can take it at home.
Evans: Now, I guess you're seeing people who are coming to you because they are unwell. Constipation is a problem to them. What would you suggest people do if they know they're going to be prescribed opioids, to prevent this from the very start.
Eugenicos: We try and educate the patients, in that patients who are on chronic opioid treatment may develop hypersensitivity, visceral hypersensitivity, which is the case in patients who have got IBS, and in particular, in this group of patients, IBS constipation. So if I treat their pain with something that, in the long run, may make their body debilitated to address pain, then perhaps I'm not addressing the question correctly. So what I try and do usually – I would appreciate [that] the patient is in pain, [and] the patient may need to be treated. So I would usually advocate neuromodulators, and the neuromodulators of choice – and these are the medicines that they would be prescribed usually, as a first choice in the pain clinics, especially pain clinics – is tricyclic antidepressants in small doses, either amitriptyline if it's tolerated or nortriptyline. Nortriptyline has got less sedative effect. And [we] only take the opioid over and above for an acute situation [that it] would work better [in]. Sometimes the patients are prescribed mild opioids when patients present with abdominal pain and they are really trying to control their symptoms and that may lead to constipation. And then we're dealing with a mixed type of disorder, which sometimes is harder to treat.
Evans: You mentioned IBS, irritable bowel syndrome. Explain what that is.
Eugenicos: The irritable bowel syndrome is a syndrome characterised by abdominal pain, which is associated with altered bowel habits. So it may relate either to diarrhoea [and] the presence of abdominal pain, or constipation [and] the presence of abdominal pain. We would make the diagnosis if the symptoms have been present for at least three months prior to the presentation. So it has to be a continuous type of effect. Anybody may develop abdominal pain. When [someone has] altered bowel habits, it doesn't mean that [they] have IBS. But if this is persistent presentation over a period of time, then it would make the diagnosis of IBS. People who may have had chronic constipation for years may develop IBS, when especially each time they have got altered bowel habits, this relates to abdominal pain. And we do warn them that sometimes it can fluctuate. The recent Rome IV criteria have defined that discomfort is not part of the IBS as a syndrome. It has to be pain. And the reason for that is that anybody with constipation may have discomfort, when they become bloated, when the bowel distends with faecal loading, etc. But [when] the pain is present, it's characteristic of the IBS, irritable bowel syndrome.
Evans: You said constipation or diarrhoea. I've talked to some people who have both.
Eugenicos: When you make a diagnosis of IBS constipation, the patient presents with hard, lumpy stool. And we define that through our consistency, the bowel movement consistency, because this may reflect more accurately the pathophysiology of the syndrome. But these people may have loose stools, but it should be less than 25% of the time. Now, the patients who present with IBS diarrhoea would have abdominal pain and would have looser, watery stools, they could have harder stools, but it should be less than – again – 25% of the time. Now [though], if people present with alternate bowel habits – [as in] constipation alternates with diarrhoea – and this may happen more than 25% of the time, then we are dealing with mixed type IBS. And we have got… there are subtypes that, at times, present with constipation, at times they present with diarrhoea, and they can fluctuate. So it's four types. And again, the reason for the differentiation of these four types is because the bowel [movement] consistency would be different. And that reflects different pathophysiology. And as a result, it would mean different types of treatment for these people.
Evans: And the reason why I'm asking about IBS is because IBS, irritable bowel syndrome, does seem to go hand in hand with some chronic pain conditions, like fibromyalgia [and] like other conditions, and in some cases, pharmaceutical treatments are the same. They seem to be working on the same systems, am I right?
Eugenicos: Yes, the pain control for fibromyalgia, for example, or for IBS is neuromodulation. For all the chronic pain syndromes like this, [the treatment] would be neuromodulation. We have come across, more often, patients who may have IBS, and may present with fibromyalgia, or other chronic conditions. We do not really know whether this is because it's a very common condition, or whether there is a causative effect, or whether pharmaceutical treatment to address one condition may lead to another. It is a very complex and interrelated situation. But in my clinic, I get quite a few patients with IBS who have resistant symptoms, quite a few of them would have fibromyalgia, quite a few of them may have Ehlers-Danlos syndrome, and other conditions.
Evans: Now one of the reasons we're doing this edition of Airing Pain is because of the number of people who phoned up our helpline about it. But also, because of the controversies over using opioids for the management of chronic pain. Do you get people who come to see you with chronic pain conditions, who are heavily reliant on opioids and have constipation?
Eugenicos: Yes, in my last clinical audit, I found that approximately 30% of the patients who present with constipation would be on opioid treatment for a chronic pain condition. So it's quite a high proportion of the constipation patients. Whether these people are referred to my clinic because their primary care professionals or physicians would like us to [advise] these people on specialist treatment or whether [it's] because they are not familiar with a specialist treatment, and the first and second lines of laxative treatment have failed, it is difficult to know.
But yes, I do have a cohort of patients [who] present to my clinic with this problem. A young man – he's forty-two years old and was referred to my clinic because his symptoms of constipation and pain were not responding [to treatment]. He had a diagnosis of IBS, [which was] constipation-made, and one of my colleagues, a gastroenterologist asked me to see him. I saw him last July, he was a very switched-on patient. So I took him through the pathophysiology of the IBS syndrome [and] of the constipation and explained to him the long term effect of somebody being on the opioids to control the pain, and offered him the modern way of addressing chronic pain through neuromodulators. And when I explained to him that although I'm trying to treat [his pain] – although it was not me who initiated the opioids – but I said to him, 'I'm your physician, I'm trying to treat your pain, and I'm giving you opioids because they do control the pain. But I have to tell you that in the long run, our studies show that you may develop a hypersensitivity, so I'm giving you opioids to treat the pain, [and they] may make you more hypersensitive to pain and they may not be addressing the pain control at all. He was so motivated, that he went home, studied the information leaflets I gave him on how to gradually reduce and come off the opioids, [and] he managed within three months' time to stop the opioids. And [he] had a review [with] my colleague who saw him in the first instance, in November – which makes it four months down the line – and declared that, 'I followed Dr Eugenicos' advice, I'm off the opioids now, my bowels are back to normal. I do not have much pain, very little pain at all. So I'm feeling much happier.' So you might say, 'Oh, maybe this anecdotal, maybe it is different.' But there is a follow-on story, in that we ran into the [Covid-19] situation. And the patient became quite stressed and quite anxious about his job about this and that, like most people nowadays with the lockdown. And I reviewed him in my specialist clinic only a month ago. And the symptoms, were back to square one. So I was so disappointed. So I said to him, 'What happened?' And he said to me, 'I don't know what happened.' And when I took the history of medications and stuff, he was back on opioids. But I said to him, 'Do you remember when you stopped the opioids, you went and saw so-and-so who wrote to me to say, "Thank you so much, because you managed to advise my patient, and he's now free of symptoms."?'
He couldn't remember it, of course, because he went into the situation, had developed pain – perhaps because of stress, because of anxiety – started the opioids because they were handed to him. So when I reminded him and I read the detail of the letter my colleague sent me he said, 'Yes you're right, I was so much better off.' I did say to him, 'I do understand why you went back on them, maybe you are stressed.' But I said to him, 'If you cannot manage without the opioids, I would suggest we do start the neuromodulators.' In the past, he managed to cut down the opioids, to stop the opioids, [and] he didn't even go back to the neuromodulators. But I suppose, because of the current situation, the worries that he had, in particular, he agreed to go on the neuromodulators, and [he agreed] to a regime to try and cut back [the opioids]. And the habits of a few patients like that, that did say, 'I stopped it, because I decided I didn't want to be on this anymore.' And suddenly their symptoms improve. Whether they need to be supported with some form of treatment, either regulating their bowel habits better, or giving them a form of neuromodulator to avoid any of the symptoms coming back. And reinforcing this sort of dependence, if you like, is important as well.
Evans: You mentioned giving out leaflets – education is absolutely crucial.
Eugenicos: I have got special interest in that. We have developed, with medical students, educational leaflets to give to the patient. We did a trial where we have designed the symptoms, lifestyle measures, medications to take, which are safer for long term, which are perhaps less often prescribed long term etc. And when we gave the patient the questionnaire, what we wanted to know more about, was the pathophysiology behind their symptoms. So what they enjoyed coming and listening about when they were coming to the clinic, is myself, showing them a picture of the [CT scan] and explaining [to] them the journey of the food through their stomach, through their small bowel [and] the large bowel, the function of each one of these organs, the function of the rest of the endocrine, if you like, the enzymes that we produce, how our bowel reacts to that [and] why we develop the symptoms we develop.
They were really fascinated, and I think if we allow the patient to be well educated, to know why they get the symptoms they get, what makes their symptoms appear certain times [in the] month, if you like, hormonal changes maybe, stress situations, and they know to address those and prevent their symptoms happening. And if they are in control, this perhaps is the key to successful treatment in general. We manage to know more about how a patient can control their symptoms better through the biofeedback when we were giving the patient the treatment modalities to take home and do it on their own. And because they had to educate themselves, how to work a biofeedback machine: 'What does it do? What does relaxation mean?' They were much better [at] controlling their symptoms and much more successful. So I do [routinely] give them leaflets, but nowadays I give them leaflets relating to their own symptoms. What my task in the future [is], is to make a booklet which would contain all the information [they need], so they don't need to depend either [on] the GPs they're visiting and [being told] this and that, or [depend on] following any healthcare professional. They need to have ownership of their symptoms, of their treatment [and] know what to do in the future.
Evans: Dr Maria Eugenicos, clinical gastroenterologist at Edinburgh's Western General Hospital. Now, as always, I remind you that we, in Pain Concern, believe the information and opinions on Airing Pain are accurate and sound, based on the best judgments available. You should always consult your health professional on any matter relating to your health and well-being. He or she is the only person who knows you and your circumstances and, therefore, the appropriate action to take on your behalf. You can find all the resources to support the management of chronic pain, including details of our videos, leaflets, all editions of Airing Pain, of course, and Pain Matters magazine at painconcern.org.uk. And Pain Concern is currently preparing an information leaflet and an article for Pain Matters magazine on how to manage opioid induced constipation. So please look out for that in the future. Dr Maria Eugenicos also recommends the IBS network websites as an excellent online resource for the management and understanding of IBS and other related conditions. The address is theibsnetwork.org. There are no gaps.
Eugenicos: In that website, they would be able to ask any questions. These bodies are linked to specialists and if anybody asked questions, they usually would address them to us, and we would answer back. So it's a big cohort of patients who usually try to collaborate. It's more about IBS, but all of these conditions are addressed under this umbrella, it doesn't have to be only IBS. So people, for example, who may have bile acid diarrhoea [and] may ask questions – nobody would tell them, 'By the way, this is not IBS', or if somebody says. 'I have been commenced on the hydrocodone that develop these symptoms, what can I do? Can we address all of these symptoms?'
Triphase Accelerator to Present Investigational New Drug Enabling Data for TRPH-222
Published 5:36 PM ET Mon, 4 Dec 2017 Globe Newswire
TORONTO and SOMERSET, N.J., Dec. 04, 2017 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Triphase Accelerator Corporation, a company dedicated to acquiring and developing novel therapeutics for the treatment of cancer, and Catalent, the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics and consumer health products, today announced Triphase's upcoming ASH presentation as well as Catalent's key publication relating to the preclinical development of TRPH-222, an anti-CD22 antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) for the treatment of patients with lymphoma.
Triphase announced that its preclinical abstract describing TRPH-222, has been accepted by the American Society of Hematology as a poster presentation at the 59th ASH Annual Meeting & Exposition, taking place from December 9-12, 2017 at the Georgia World Congress Center, Atlanta, Georgia. The poster, by MacLaren, et. al., titled "TRPH-222, a Novel Anti-CD22 Antibody Drug Conjugate, Has Significant Anti-Tumor Activity in NHL Xenografts and Is Well Tolerated in Non-Human Primates," will be presented in session 625 on Monday, December 11, 2017 from 6:00 p.m. to 8:00 p.m., in building A, level 1, hall A2.
Also today, Catalent Biologics announced the publication of a manuscript by Drake, et. al., titled, "CAT-02-106, a site-specifically conjugated anti-CD22 antibody bearing an MDR1-resistant maytansine payload yields excellent efficacy and safety in preclinical models," in Molecular Cancer Therapeutics, a high impact, peer-reviewed medical journal describing preclinical data from novel therapeutic agents. CAT-02-106 was Catalent's research designation for the TRPH-222 program prior to Triphase acquiring the worldwide rights to further develop the program from Catalent Biologics in 2016. CAT-02-106 was developed by Catalent's wholly owned subsidiary, Redwood Bioscience, using its proprietary SMARTag® platform.
"We continue to be encouraged by the pre-clinical data from the TRPH-222 program, indicating better tolerability and an expanded therapeutic index for this SMARTag ADC as compared to conventional ADCs," commented Dr. Henry Lowman, Executive Director of Research and Development at Triphase. "We believe this molecule can play an important role in the treatment of lymphoma and we are committed to accelerating its development into the clinic."
"We are excited about the rapid progress Triphase has achieved with this important compound, and pleased to be partnering with such a capable organization to advance this treatment to patients," added Mike Riley, Vice President & General Manager of Catalent Biologics.
About TRPH-222
TRPH-222 is a novel, site-specific antibody-drug conjugate (ADC) targeting CD22, a B-cell-restricted sialo-glycoprotein that is an important modulator of B-cell signaling and survival, and is expressed on nearly all B-cell malignancies. CD22 is a clinically validated ADC target with potential in Non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). The compound itself combines a site-specific modified humanized antibody conjugated to a cytotoxic payload using Hydrazino-Pictet-Spengler (HIPSTM) chemistry and a proprietary 4AP linker. Pre-clinical data have shown that this optimization of payload placement and linker composition, combined with the stability afforded by HIPS chemistry, leads to better tolerability and expanded therapeutic index. TRPH-222 is currently in IND enabling GLP studies.
About the SMARTag® Technology
Catalent's proprietary SMARTag platform, which provides site-specific protein-modification and linker technologies, was developed by Redwood Bioscience to enable the generation of homogenous bioconjugates engineered to enhance potency, safety and stability. The aldehyde tag technology employs natural co-translational modifications found in human cells to create one or more attachment sites at designated positions on protein molecules. These chemical "handles'' are then stably conjugated to payloads (e.g. cytotoxic or effector) to prevent their systemic release. The SMARTag platform provides precise payload positioning, stable, site-specific conjugation, and defined stoichiometry of drug–protein ratios. The control afforded by the technology enables identification of superior drugs from libraries of differentially designed conjugates. Catalent acquired Redwood Bioscience in 2014.
Catalent is the leading global provider of advanced delivery technologies and development solutions for drugs, biologics and consumer health products. With over 80 years serving the industry, Catalent has proven expertise in bringing more customer products to market faster, enhancing product performance and ensuring reliable clinical and commercial product supply. Catalent employs over 11,000 people, including over 1,400 scientists, at more than 30 facilities across 5 continents and in fiscal 2017 generated over $2 billion in annual revenue. Catalent is headquartered in Somerset, N.J. For more information, please visit www.catalent.com.
+1.906.789.0003
1215 18th Street North, Escanaba, MI 49829, USA
END THE SILENCE WALK, A SUICIDE AWARENESS AND PREVENTION WALK IS IN MEMORY OF THE LIVES OF BOBBY AND JOSH BINTNER. THEY WERE BROTHERS THAT BOTH COMPLETED SUICIDE, 13 YEARS APART. BOBBY WAS 13 YEARS OLD AND JOSH WAS 17 YEARS OLD, BOTH BATTLED SECRETLY WITH DEPRESSION AND FELT THEY HAD NO OTHER OPTION BUT TO END THEIR LIVES.
THE BINTNER FAMILY WAS DEVASTATED BY THESE EVENTS AND FELT THE NEED TO MAKE AN IMPACT ON THE DELTA COUNTY COMMUNITY WITH THEIR STORY. THE BINTNER FAMILY AND FRIENDS PARTNERED WITH THE DELTA COUNTY SUICIDE PREVENTION TASK FORCE IN 2009 TO CREATE THIS EVENT TO RAISE AWARENESS IN THE DELTA COUNTY COMMUNITY ABOUT DEPRESSION AND SUICIDE.
THE DELTA COUNTY SUICIDE PREVENTION TASK FORCE FORMED IN 2006 IN RESPONSE TO A PLAN ON THE STATE LEVEL TO ADDRESS THE SOCIAL PROBLEM OF SUICIDE AND INITIATE PREVENTION ACTIVITIES. THE TASK FORCE CONSISTS OF LOCAL MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS, SURVIVORS OF SUICIDE, EDUCATORS AND COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
FUNDS RAISED FROM THE END THE SILENCE WALK OVER THE YEARS HAVE FUNDED THE FOLLOWING ACTIVITIES THAT THE SUICIDE PREVENTION TASK FORCE HAS BEEN INVOLVED WITH:
IN 2105, THE SUICIDE PREVENTION TASK FORCE HIRED A SOCIAL WORKER, PAM ALTO, TO PROVIDE SERVICES ONE DAY A WEEK FOR ONE SCHOOL YEAR AT THE ISD, ESCANABA MIDDLE AND HIGH SCHOOLS.
OVER THE LAST 10 YEARS, THERE HAVE BEEN 20 PRESENTATIONS IN THE DELTA COUNTY SCHOOL DISTRICT ON SUICIDE AWARENESS AND EDUCATION GIVEN BY BDD ASSOCIATES (STEVE BUCKBEE, DAN DOYLE & MIKE DUPONT) ALONG WITH CINDY BINTNER. STUDENTS ARE ALSO GIVEN INFORMATION AND LEFTOVER SHIRTS FROM THE END THE SILENCE WALK.
IN 2019, THE SUICIDE PREVENTION TASK FORCE PARTICIPATED IN A PROGRAM THAT BAY COLLEGE NURSING STUDENTS HOSTED, YOU ARE NOT ALONE. JEFF OLSON PRESENTED AND THERE WAS A SHOWING OF HIS DOCUMENTARY, DO IT FOR DANIEL, WHICH WAS ABOUT HIS SON WHO STRUGGLED WITH MENTAL ILLNESS AND COMPLETED SUICIDE.
IN 2018, THE SUICIDE PREVENTION TASK FORCE PARTICIPATED IN THE SHOWING OF THE RIPPLE EFFECT, A DOCUMENTARY BY KEVIN HINES, A SURVIVOR OF SUICIDE WHO JUMPED OFF THE GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE.
IN 2017, THE SUICIDE PREVENTION TASK FORCE PARTICIPATED IN AN ASSEMBLY ON BULLYING. THE BDD ASSOCIATED PRESENTED AND INFORMATIONAL MATERIAL WAS DISTRIBUTED.
STARTING IN 2013, THE SUICIDE PREVENTION TASK FORCE HAS SPONSORED AN ANNUAL $250 HEALTHY CHOICE SCHOLARSHIP TO STUDENTS BY WHO COMPLETE AN ESSAY ON SUICIDE PREVENTION AND HEALTHY CHOICES.
PRESENTED TO APPROXIMATELY 85 DELTA COUNTY TEACHERS AT TEACHER PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT DAY ABOUT HOW TO HANDLE AND IDENTIFY A SUICIDAL STUDENT.
DEPRESSION AWARENESS POSTERS THAT TARGETED TEENS HAVE BEEN DISTRIBUTED IN LOCAL SCHOOLS AND OTHER LOCATIONS.
RESOURCE DIRECTORY FLYERS, EDUCATIONAL MATERIAL ALONG WITH PENS, MAGNETS AND WRISTBANDS THAT DISPLAYED THE 1-800-273- TALK LIFELINE NUMBER WERE DISTRIBUTED TO MIDDLE AND HIGH SCHOOL STUDENTS.​
Robert Arnold Bok MD, San Francisco, CA - Internal Medicine
Robert Arnold Bok, MD
Ste 201 Byers Hall Ucsf 1700 4th St, San Francisco, CA 94158
Profile ID: 321501
Continue to Robert Arnold Bok's profile
I, authorize Dr. Robert Arnold Bok to release any and all healthcare information about me to my HealthLynked personal health record (PHR) for my own uses and purposes. I acknowledge that such healthcare information may include the following: x­ rays, clinical diagnosis, histories of present illnesses, immunizations, allergies, prescription drug information, laboratory results, diagnostic screening and testing, clinical procedures, medical research, clinical trials, billing, account, and insurance information.
I acknowledge that with this authorization Dr. Robert Arnold Bok may disclose any information or records (within the scope of the authorization) that Dr. Robert Arnold Bok has received about me from other healthcare practices, providers or facilities. Dr. Robert Arnold Bok may, within its discretion, withhold from disclosure any of the above information as permitted or required by law.
Access to treatment or services may not be denied to me if I decline to sign this Authorization or revoke my Authorization. However, without this Authorization, my Dr. Robert Arnold Bok will not electronically release my healthcare informat io n to my HealthLynked PHR. I may revoke this authorization at any time. Such revocation will take effect immediately to the extent that my doctor has already acted based on this Authorization.
I may revoke this Authorization by unlinking or removing access for Dr. Robert Arnold Bok as a health care provider with which I want to be connected on my HealthLynked account. However, I acknowledge that data previously submitted by Dr.Robert Arnold Bok as authorized by me prior to my subsequent revocation of this Authorization will remain in my HealthLynked account. I understand that I may delete my HealthLynked account any time.
This authorization shall end upon the earliest of: a) the termination of the connection between my healthcare Dr. Robert Arnold Bok and my HealthLynked Account.
Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH | World Psychiatric Association
Within this programme, the Case Western Reserve School of Medicine, Cleveland, OH, USA is funding a one-year research fellowship in the therapeutics of bipolar disorder.
The main purpose of this fellowship is to provide an opportunity for the recipient to get training in research methodology focusing on the phenomenology and therapeutics of bipolar disorder. The primary focus of research conducted at this research center is the short- and long-term treatment of bipolar disorder with special emphasis on bipolar depression, rapid cycling pattern of presentation, and co-occurring Axis I disorders. The training director, Dr. Joseph Calabrese, holds the Bipolar Disorders Research Chair and is Professor of Psychiatry at Case Western Reserve University. For further information on the center, please visit the website http://case.edu/mdp.
Applicants should submit by e-mail their curriculum vitae to the WPA Secretariat (wpasecretariat@wpanet.org). The deadline for applications is September 30, 2010.
What is Sinutab? Sinutab is a medicine you can buy from pharmacies to relieve symptoms of cold, flu and nasal congestion. Sinutab tablets contain paracetamol (500mg) and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride (30mg).
What are the active ingredients in Sinutab?
Non-drowsy Sinutab tablets contain two active ingredients, paracetamol (500mg) and pseudoephedrine hydrochloride (30mg).
Does Sinutab make you drowsy?
Sinutab is formulated to relieve pain and, at the same time, to clear the congestion in the sinuses that cause the pain. Sinutab also provides relief from the congestive symptoms and pain of fever associated with the common cold, influenza, hayfever and sinusitis. Causes no drowsiness. Suitable for.
What is the difference between Sinutab and Sudafed?
Sinutab and Sudafed both contain the active ingredient Paracetamol (Sinutab contains 500 mg Paracetamol and 30 mg Pseudoephedrine hydrochloride per tablet while Sudafed contains Pseudoephedrine hydrochloride 60 mg per tablet) and this provides quick relief from pain and fever symptoms.
What are the uses of Sinutab non drying?
Sinutab Non Drying is a combination medicine used to treat stuffy nose and sinus congestion, and to reduce chest congestion caused by the common cold or flu. Sinutab Non Drying may also be used for purposes not listed in this medication guide.
What is Sinutab made of?
Currently, Sinutab is packaged as white, round, biconvex, uncoated tablets, with each tablet containing 30 mg of pseudoephedrine hydrochloride (PSE), 500 mg of paracetamol (acetaminophen), and 2 mg of chlorpheniramine maleate (CPM) as the active ingredients. Why Was Sinutab Off The Market?
What is Sinutab Nasal Spray used for?
Sinutab also comes as a nasal spray that unblocks the nose, relieving the pressure and clearing your head cold. Sinutab Nasal Spray contains Xylometazoline Hydrochloride 1 mg per ml (0,1% w/v). How is Sinutab tablet used? Use Sinutab tablets exactly as directed on the label, or as prescribed by your doctor.
What age is Sinutab tablets suitable for?
Sinutab tablets are only suitable for children over 12 years old. What is Sinutab used for? To relieve a blocked nose and sinuses, fever and aches and pains such as headache, sore throat or sinus pain associated with conditions such as colds, flu, inflammation of the sinuses (sinusitis) or allergies like hayfever.
What are the possible side effects of Sinutab?
Just because a side effect is stated here doesnt mean that all people taking Sinutab will experience that or any side effect. Feeling sick or vomiting. Headache. Increased heart rate. Increased blood pressure. Dry mouth. Anxiety. Difficulty passing urine. Skin rash. Restlessness. Difficulty sleeping.
Is it safe to drink alcohol with Sinutab?
The hazards of paracetamol overdose are greater in persistent heavy drinkers and in people with alcoholic liver disease. ▪️ Drinking alcohol with Sinutab is best avoided because the combination of alcohol and paracetamol could increase the risk of side effects on your liver.
How does Sinutab work?
How Does it Work? Sinutab is an over the counter medicine that contains two active ingredients - paracetamol, which reduces the pain of sinus congestion, and a decongestant known as pseudoephedrine to gradually prevent further allergy and sinus symptoms.
Can you take more than one Sinutab?
Do not take more than four tablets in 24 hours. ▪️ Sinutab tablets should be swallowed with a drink of water. They can be taken either with or without food. ▪️ Dont use this medicine for longer than seven days without getting medical advice from your doctor or pharmacist.
If you are suffering with cold and flu symptoms, allergies or sinus related pain and congestion, Sinutab and Sudafed are both effective treatments. Sinutab and Sudafed are both used to treat congestion and provide relief from headaches and aches and pains but which is better for you? How do they work?
Sensitech Explores How Real-Time Data Collection Ensures Valuable Decision Making Within the Supply Chain - PR.com
Press Releases>Transportation>Logistics>SAE Media Group>
London, United Kingdom, April 07, 2017 --(PR.com)-- Sensitech, major key players in the global supply chain process management solutions market, has joined the speaker line-up for SMi Group's 11th Pharmaceutical Logistics conference. Senior Manager Strategic Marketing for Life Sciences EMEA Olivier Simonnot will be presenting a keynote evaluating the collection of data in real-time, as well as best practices associated with its value for decision making at the shipment and at the strategic levels.
The presentation will benefit attendees to address problems at the shipment level before they escalate and to understand where to focus resources to increase carrier performance while reducing costs. Mr Simmonot will also provide strategies on how to strengthen supply chain visibility as well as to implement geo-fences, red zones, and driver tracking to ensure that SOPs are being followed.
He joins a lineup of seasoned experts Exelcius, Seer Pharma, Johnson and Johnson, Merck, Sharpe and Dohme, GlaxoSmithKline, Eli Lilly, Sanofi, IATA, AstraZeneca, ASC Associates, TEDAC, Turkish Cargo, GS1, TAPA, GIRP and more.
The full roster of the speakers as well as their presentations can be viewed at www.pharmaceutical-logistics.com/prcom
The 11th Pharmaceutical Logistics Event will also provide in-depth discussions on the demands of temperature regulation, warehousing and supply chain efficacy, innovation within clinical trial logistics, and regulatory considerations within the pharmaceutical industry.
If John is a paid employee of Science University, which has submitted a research application to NIH, can he serve on the panel that reviews the application? Since John has a conflict of interest with the application, he may not review that particular application and will have to be out of the room during the discussion and evaluation of that application, but may serve on the panel to review other applications.
The core values of impartiality, fairness, and integrity are fundamental to the NIH peer review process. NIH Scientific Review Officers (SROs) spend considerable time and energy identifying appropriate reviewers and managing reviewer conflicts of interest (COI).
The rules for managing COI addressed on this page apply to peer reviewers participating in:
initial peer review for all types of grant programs, with the exception of construction grants, and
peer review of proposals for Research and Development (R & D) contracts.
When does COI arise?
What are the types of conflicts that must be managed? Check out the many types below. Note that COI is handled differently for reviewers of grants and R&D contracts.
Appearance of a COI: Any situation that could cause a reasonable person with all the relevant facts to question the impartiality of the reviewer or that leads a reviewer to question his or her objectivity means that the reviewer:
May not participate in the evaluation of that grant application.
May not serve on the study section where that R&D contract proposal is evaluated.
Study section membership: An application from a member of a study section that meets regularly may not be reviewed by that member's study section.
Applications in response to a Request for Applications (RFA): An individual who is listed on an application submitted to an RFA with a major professional role may not serve on a study section evaluating any applications from that same RFA.
Certifying COI
Each NIH peer reviewer must certify, under penalty of perjury (US Code Title 18 chapter 47 section 1001), that to the best of his or her knowledge he/she has disclosed all conflicts of interest that he or she may have with the applications or R&D contract proposals; he or she fully understands the confidential nature of the review process and agrees:
(1) to destroy or return all materials related to it;
(2) not to disclose or discuss the materials associated with the review, the evaluation, or the review meeting with any other individual except as authorized by the Scientific Review Officer (SRO) or other designated NIH official;
(3) not to disclose procurement information prior to the award of a contract; and
(4) to refer all inquiries concerning the review to the SRO or other designated NIH official.
Want more policy details?
NOT-OD-21-005: Notice of Policy Revision: Managing Conflicts of Interest for Requests for Applications (RFAs)
NOT-OD-21-019: Notice of Clarification: Policy for Managing Conflict of Interest in NIH Peer Review
NIH Policy for Managing Conflict of Interest in the Peer Review of Concepts and Proposals for R&D Contract Projects
Advanced Notice: Revised Policy for Managing Conflict of Interest in the Initial Peer Review of NIH Grant and Cooperative Agreement Applications
NIH Conflict of Interest Rules for Reviewers (PDF - 34 KB)
To view the conflict of interest certifications, please go to Consolidated List of Reviewer Documents.
