Cold sore vaccine 2011. Get Lots Of Cold Sores Your Genes Might Be To Blame
Cold sore vaccine 2011
Posted: 12012011 4:47 pm EST Updated: 12012011 4:47 pm EST The C21orf91 gene seems to play a role in cold sore susceptibility, and if this data is . Does the Zostavax vaccine (for herpes zoster) have any preventive effect on facial 11 Mar 2010 The vaccine fights the herpes simplex 2 virus (HSV2), which coexists with a history of cold sores, which are caused by the related virus HSV1
1 May 2014 Influenza vaccine effectiveness questions and answers - CDC. 77 reduction among adults 50 years of age and older during the 2011-2012 flu season. Is the flu vaccine effective against all types of flu and cold viruses
15 Apr 2011 The challenge lies in formulating either a single vaccine that protects against both The herpes virus that causes ordinary cold sores, herpes simplex 1, is present in about 70 percent of the U.S. population. April 15, 2011. gt The zoster vaccine (trade name Zostavax) is a live vaccine developed by Merck On March 24, 2011, the FDA approved the zoster vaccine for individuals 50 to Herpes Zoster Vaccine Safe for Use in Rheumatoid Arthritis Patients on Biologics . Nov. Cold Sores Increase Risk of Dementia, Research Suggests. Oct. 20
Get Lots Of Cold Sores Your Genes Might Be To Blame
Published online Dec 1, 2011. doi: 10.1172JCI57148 The possibility that an HSV-2 vaccine may provide protection against HSV-1 increases its potential 15 Jun 2013 In addition, the specter of a live HSV-2 vaccine that established a latent new rounds of disease (e.g., recurrent cold sores or recurrent genital herpes). .. 2011 Proof that my lab39s live-attenuated HSV-2 ICP0- mutant vaccine
leer truck caps web site
ny doctors on oxford health plan
can you spread herpes type 1 without an outbreak
sore throat cold medicine
cerovite vitamin
water conservation lesson plans
Shingles vaccine info for parents, public, and healthcare professionals. From MedscapeCME Clinical Briefs (Valid for credit through 05052011) 2008 2011. Twenty-four patients afflicted with HSV1 and HSV2 herpes recurrences Results: From 2005 through 2011, for the 24 anti-VZV vaccinated patients, the
How Does Anxiety Make You Feel? Answers From Doctors - Neuro Section9
How Does Anxiety Make You Feel? Answers From Doctors
Social Anxiety Disorder: Causes, Symptoms, Management
Selective Mutism: Causes, Symptoms, and Treatment
Panic Disorder: Symptoms, Diagnosis, Treatment
How does anxiety make you feel and what exactly is it? Feeling anxious is this horrendous feeling in our belly and our hearts that sometimes helps, and sometimes hurts. Feeling fear or anxious is totally normal.
You might be curious as everyone is talking about their mental health and anxiety and you don't really know what that feels like. Or maybe, you are walking the line between feeling and being anxious. You might need a little confirmation of what is normal and what is a mental illness.
Feeling anxious is like a difficult cycle to break from. You worry about taking the train, although you need to take it and maybe nothing will happen. But you worry about being stuck there, and throwing up because it did happen once in your life. You will worry all week until Friday comes, and you need to finally take that train.
Your anxiety and stress levels are through the roof already, you could not sleep all week. When eventually you do get on the train, there are always two options. You might, or might not throw up.
However, every time you do get nauseous (because of the train or the anxiety) that will confirm your smart brain. However, it is not great at remembering when you don't get nauseous. Why does your brain work that way, and what are the details there?
Anxiety can come in many sizes and shapes, you can be anxious about thunder, about your kid falling, about your workload or about your health.
Further, it is very possible that spiders are not your favorite animal and that you would like to run when you see a needle. Is all this anxiety? You surely are feeling intense fear in all these cases, however it does not mean that you have anxiety disorder.
In general, we can conclude that anxiety does not make you like the best version of yourself. Anxiety disorder (or generalised anxiety disorder) comes with physical and mental symptoms. Everyone reacts a little different.
The Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (DSM), made by the American Psychiatric Association (APA), recognizes the following physical symptoms:
Sleep disturbance (trouble sleeping, staying asleep, or unsatisfying sleep).
For some, it does not stop there. Many people get diagnosed with anxiety after a visit to the emergency room. They go there as they think they have a heart attack or the pain in their stomach becomes unbearable. Once they are there, there is usually no diagnosis or they first hear that it is mental.
They are most likely experiencing a panic attack. A panic attack is an intense moment of fear. It feels like there is a climax after a couple of minutes and goes down again after. Panic attacks can look or feel like:
A pounding or rapid heartbeat, palpitations
Nauseous, abdominal distress
Dizzy, unsteady, lightheaded
Derealization (feelings of unreality)
Depersonalization (being detached from oneself)
Paresthesias (numbness or tingling sensation)
Heat sensations.
Basically, this is very logical. Anxiety is a normal reaction of the body trying to protect us against danger or a threat. It is primitive, our brain is smart. It is great at remembering what makes us feel in danger.
Our fight-or-flight response gets activated. Stress hormones like adrenaline run through our veins, making our body ready to literally fight or flight. Basically, we feel an enormous amount of stress in our body.
To survive this threat, we need to think fast, we need warm muscles and be in a zone of high alert. Great, you have espaped this threat. In general, we don't have to run away from wolves or tigers anymore. Today, the threat might have been a car accident, or a very pressing deadline, or traffic.
While some people are very resilient in regressing to a state where your body does not feel stress anymore, others are not.
Misfortunes never come alone. These physical symptoms usually go together with a range of psychological symptoms. Officially, these are the symptoms recognized by the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual (or the DSM) and/ or by the ICD.
Mental health anxiety symptoms:
Free-floating, persistent and excessive worrying or an intense fear
Difficulty concentrating or the mind going blank
A feeling of danger or dread, accompanied by the above symptoms without a clear trigger
The feeling of nervousness or fear of impending actual or imagined danger
What does this look like in human language?
More concrete, you might have thoughts about what is worrying you. It feels like you don't have control over that anymore. In general, these worries are about the future.
Normal anxiety helps you walk a bit faster at night because you think you might be robbed in the dark. Anxiety that is not functional anymore, makes you not leave your house anymore at all.
These thoughts can be about anything and everything, but with anxiety disorder they spin out of control. You can't sleep anymore because you think you will fail a test. These things spin out of control and you have no idea how the anxiety radio off. Life can become too overwhelming, even the things that seem rationally small.
Anxiety can look and feel different for everyone. Below you can find 7 types of anxiety, recognized by the APA:
Panic disorder (PD): Anxiety disorder accompanied with a pattern of panic attacks
Specific phobias or simple phobias: Anxiety bound by situational phobias like animal phobias, needles, water, small spaces, clowns
Social phobia or social anxiety disorder: Anxiety mostly bound to social situations and the evaluation of others
Agoraphobia: anxiety bound to public transportation, open or enclosed space, standing in line or being outside alone
Separation anxiety disorder: Anxiety about losing someone important to you
Selective mutism: Anxiety mostly for children, resulting in not speaking to others
Other mental health conditions like obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD), post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and acute stress disorder are no longer categorized as anxiety disorder, but fall under other related disorders.
What is the difference between an anxiety disorder and normal anxiety?
In general 'normal' fear or anxiety is because of a real threat or danger. Anxiety disorder is when you feel anxious and it is taking over your daily life.
When your day to day life is compromised by your ruminating thoughts or other mental health concerns, it is time to seek medical advice. A mental health specialist can help you with coping strategies and your anxiety symptoms.
Anxiety disorders are some of the most common mental health conditions.
Statistics provided by the National Institute of Mental Health show that 19.1% of adults in the USA were diagnosed with an anxiety disorder in 2016.
Women (23.4%) seem to be more sensitive to it than men (14.3%). About 31% of adults will be confronted with any anxiety disorder in their lives.
Adolescents have more bleak numbers. About 31.9% of them had an anxiety disorder, girls (38%) again scored higher than boys (26.1%).
Some other statistics by the National Institute of Mental Health:
separation anxiety disorder: 1-4% in children of the general population, 6.6% of lifetime prevalence
Social anxiety disorder: 9.1% of adolescents, 12.1% of adults over their lifetime
Panic disorder: 2.3% of adolescents, 4.7% over their lifetime
How does anxiety look like in children?
Children go through many developmental stages, worrying or being anxious is not necessarily an indication for mental illness.
Children should and probably will feel anxiety about the following things:
babies & toddlers (0-2 years): strangers, loud noises, costumes, changes, separation, large objects..
Preschoolers (3-4 years): dogs and animals, the dark, noises at night, monsters and ghosts..
School ages (5+ years): angry teachers, sickness and injurances, nightmares, natural disasters, being home alone, snakes & spiders..
If your child can't stop thinking of these or others, seek treatment by a mental health provider. In general they feel stuck, or their behavior has changed (f.e. Extreme shyness).
When to see a doctor or the ER
You should see the emergency room when you have suicidal thoughts.
Further if you are experiencing panic attacks (or an anxiety attack) or physical signs that concern you, you should go to the ER as well. They can confirm by medical test if these are symptoms of anxiety disorders or panic attacks or if these physical health problems are due to a physical illness.
A doctor can provide medical advice in case of an underlying health issue.
We are not entirely sure what causes generalized anxiety disorder. We do know that anxiety is a normal and healthy stress response, until the moments that the things that trigger anxiety or not a threat anymore and they have an influence on our everyday life.
Genetics might play a role, as do other medical symptoms like heart diseases, diabetes or others. A big reaction to stress or chronic stress don't help either. Lastly, there might be associations with other psychosocial factors like a traumatic event, shyness or a personality with perfectionistic and obsessive tendencies.
You can undertake some steps to take care of your mental health before seeing a doctor.
There is general advice that can lower the risk of developing anxiety disorders:
not abusing drugs and alcohol
eating a complete and healthy diet full of grains, fruits and vegetables
not drinking too much coffee
and getting enough sleep.
However, this will not solve all problems. It is essential that you try changing up your lifestyle as well. You need to pay attention to lowering your stress levels and taking care of your mental health in other ways.
Other ways to lower your anxiety disorder symptoms or get a handle on your stress levels can be:
physical exercise. f.e. yoga
visiting friends and family, or support groups.
Usually a combination of cognitive behavioral therapy and medication (f.e. anti anxiety medication like benzodiazepines, SSRIs, SNRIs or monoamine oxidase inhibitors) is prescribed to treat anxiety disorders.
Anxiety is a normal stress reaction in life. It is biological, our body and brain gets ready for a threat. And it is also mental, your thoughts are stuck. You keep worrying and it is difficult to put your thoughts on the side.
Anxiety can have an intense impact on your personal, professional and academic life. It does not need to stop you from living your life.
To come back to your normal functioning state, you need to treat the disorder. Medicine and therapy help a lot. Join a group, talk about it, see a therapist that will be able to coach you through and get the right treatment.
Get help as soon as possible when anxiety hits you hard or if it becomes an everyday worry
Children, adolescents and adults can suffer from anxiety. There is no shame in admitting that you might suffer from one of these anxiety disorders. As you can see, it is very common.
There are many types of anxiety like generalized anxiety disorder, social anxiety, specific phobias and many more.
admin, Author at K Friedman Consulting - Page 2 of 4
March 18, 2017 in Drug Products /by admin
If you are selling a drug product in Canada you are most likely familiar with the term "DIN" which stands for Drug Identification Number. In order to sell a drug product in Canada and operate in compliance with Health Canada's Food & Drug Regulations all companies must apply for and receive a DIN for their […]
Changes in Ownership, Mergers & Buyouts – Drug Products
February 18, 2017 in Post Approval /by admin
On February 18, 2017 Health Canada released the Draft Guidance Document: Administrative Processing of Drug Submissions and Applications Involving Human or Disinfectant Drugs for external consultation. This guidance document will ultimately replace the current 1998 Change in Manufacturer's / Product Name Policy (CMPN). Once finalized, this new draft guidance document would replace the CMPN Policy. […]
January 3, 2017 in Natural Health Products /by admin
Health Canada's Natural and Non-Prescription Health Products Directorate (NNHPD) provided a glimpse of some proposed changes in their Six-Month Calendar of Activities for January-June 2017. The last one on the list, Compliance Monitoring Projects, has to do with on-site auditing of GMP compliance. This one may be of particular interest to those facilities with a […]
December 12, 2016 in consumer products /by admin
The sale of skin care products and cosmetics is on the rise thanks to the holiday gift season that's now upon us, and the need for Canadians to hydrate their skin to combat the dry and cold weather during Canadian winters. Two categories of consumer products, cosmetics and over-the-counter (OTC) drug products, may be used […]
November 19, 2016 in Exporting your Natural Health Products /by admin
The distinction between foods and dietary supplements (natural health products) is often challenging for those groups looking to sell these products in Canada. However product classification is a first and necessary step in the process of getting these products to market. There are many ingredients that sit on the food/natural health product interface; many ingredients […]
Natural Health Product Licensing – Canada
November 14, 2016 in Natural Health Product Licenses /by admin
The Canadian system of pre-market licensing for natural health products (dietary supplements) tends to be surrounded by a cloud of mystery for groups looking to sell their products in Canada. The two types of licenses required before sale are distinct in what they cover, and the licenses may be owned by different parties, which results […]
November 5, 2016 in Cosmetics /by admin
For anyone looking to sell cosmetics in Canada, a cosmetic notification form must be submitted to Health Canada for all products. The on-line notification process, which is the preferred route for submitting these forms, has been on hold while system upgrades are taking place. However Health Canada has indicated that the off-line phase is shortly […]
October 1, 2016 in Exporting your Natural Health Products /by admin
If you are already selling your dietary supplements in the United States or other countries outside of Canada, chances are you want to grow your business by exporting your dietary supplements and natural health products to Canada too. After all, the value of the natural products industry in Canada is estimated at over 3 billion […]
September 16, 2016 in consumer products /by admin
Health Canada released the finalized guidance document for the labelling of acetaminophen containing products in Canada. The guidance document is relevant for both single acetaminophen products and multiple ingredient products containing acetaminophen. The labelling standard has been revised based on the outcome of a 2014 acetaminophen review which recommended that the label include stronger alcohol […]
September 10, 2016 in Natural Health Products /by admin
Resveratrol has long been designated as having anti-aging properties even amidst mixed reviews of its efficacy in humans. Popular sources of resveratrol include grapes, red wine, blueberries, cranberries, and dark chocolate. Currently in Canada there are numerous resveratrol-containing supplements approved as natural health products (dietary supplements) by Health Canada's Natural and Non-prescription Health Products Directorate. […]
In December 2019, we announced positive Phase 3 trial results from the PRIMROSE 2 trial of linzagolix for the treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) due to uterine fibroids. The PRIMROSE 2 trial enrolled 535 women with uterine fibroids. The trial was conducted in Europe and the US, and evaluated the efficacy and safety of once daily oral linzagolix, including 100 mg and 200 mg doses, both with and without hormonal add-back therapy (ABT). The primary efficacy endpoint was the reduction in HMB; responders were defined as patients with menstrual blood loss volume of ≤ 80 mL and a 50 percent or greater reduction from baseline in menstrual blood loss volume at 24 weeks, measured using the alkaline hematin method. Bone mineral density (BMD) was measured centrally via Dual Energy X-ray Absorptiometry (DEXA) scan at baseline and 24 weeks. The responder rate was 93.9% (p < 0.001) for patients receiving 200 mg with ABT and 56.7% for patients receiving 100 mg without ABT (p < 0.001), compared to 29.4% in the placebo group. Both doses achieved significant rates of amenorrhea (p< 0.001), reduction in pain (p < 0.001), and improvement in quality of life (p < 0.001). Additionally, significant improvement (p< 0.001) in Hb levels, a reduction in number of days of bleeding and reduction in uterine volume were observed. A significant reduction in fibroid volume was also observed for the 200 mg dose with ABT (p < 0.001). The overall safety profile was in line with expectations. The most frequently observed adverse events (occurring in > 5% of patients) were headache, hot flushes, and anemia. Mean percentage change from baseline in BMD was consistent with the previous trial.
Neonatal Worksheets - Trip Database
1. Neonatal Worksheets
2. Guidelines for Family-Centered Care in the Neonatal, Pediatric, and Adult ICU
Guidelines for Family-Centered Care in the Neonatal, Pediatric, and Adult ICU Guidelines for Family-Centered Care in the Neonatal, Pediatr... : Critical Care Medicine You may be trying to access this site from a secured browser on the server. Please enable scripts and reload this page. Login No user account? Lippincott Journals Subscribers , use your username or email along with your password to log in. Remember me on this computer Register for a free account Registered users can save articles (...) For Authors Journal Info > > Guidelines for Family-Centered Care in the Neonatal, Pediatr... Email to a Colleague Colleague's E-mail is Invalid Your Name: (optional) Your Email: Colleague's Email: Separate multiple e-mails with a (;). Message: Thought you might appreciate this item(s) I saw at Critical Care Medicine. Send a copy to your email Your message has been successfully sent to your colleague. Some error has occurred while processing your request. Please try after some time. Article Tools Share
3. Neonatal Worksheets
4. Neonatal ICU System Safety: A Pilot Test for Medication Error by Using Fuzzy Grey Relational Analysis. (PubMed)
Neonatal ICU System Safety: A Pilot Test for Medication Error by Using Fuzzy Grey Relational Analysis. This study analyzed risk factors for medication/near-miss errors in the neonatal intensive care unit by using Grey Relational Analysis based on self-incident reports from staff nurses. The ASSESS-ERR Medication System Worksheet was used. A total of 156 medication/near-miss errors were found across 5 stages of the medication use process. The order prescribing stage had the most errors
5. Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) for Dysphagia in Neonates
Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) for Dysphagia in Neonates Neuromuscular Electrical Stimulation (NMES) for Dysphagia in Neonates - Full Text View - ClinicalTrials.gov Hide glossary Glossary Study record managers: refer to the if submitting registration or results information. Search for terms x × Study Record Detail Saved Studies Save this study Warning You have reached the maximum number of saved studies (100). Please remove one or more studies before adding more. Neuromuscular (...) Electrical Stimulation (NMES) for Dysphagia in Neonates The safety and scientific validity of this study is the responsibility of the study sponsor and investigators. Listing a study does not mean it has been evaluated by the U.S. Federal Government. Read our for details. ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT02007759 Recruitment Status : Terminated (Difficulty with recruiting patients; poor quality of EMG) First Posted : December 11, 2013 Last Update Posted : July 18, 2017 Sponsor: Sanford Health
6. Digital platforms as effective health promotion tools
7. Do evidence summaries increase health policy-makers? use of evidence from systematic reviews?
8. Health Effects for Infants and Young Children Associated with Breastfeeding: A Rapid Review
hospitals, for a facilitated discussion of the findings and draft recommendations outlined in this report. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the applicability (feasibility) and transferability (generalizability) of the recommendations to our local context. Questions from the Applicability and Transferability Worksheet (11) were used to guide our discussion. A summary of key points is outlined below. 19 Applicability Political Acceptability: The current political climate in Peel is supportive (...) . (55644) 5 1 or 3 or 4 (135683) 6 ("infant*" or "neonate*" or "newborn*").ti,ab. (854299) 7 2 or 6 (2041281) 8 ("dose*" or exposure or duration).ti,ab. (3473779) 9 ("review*" or "meta-analys*" or "synthes*" or "guideline*").ti. (1212428) 10 5 and 7 and 8 and 9 (776) 11 limit 10 to yr="2007 -Current" (545) 12 remove duplicates from 11 (264) *************************** 30 31 32 33 Appendix D: Literature Search Flowchart What are the health effects of breastfeeding or feeding expressed mother's milk
for our health system regarding colorectal cancer screening, cystic fibrosis, and supplemental feeding in neonates. We elicited feedback on sources and presentation of evidence used in guideline development, including EPC reports, as well as suggestions to facilitate ease of use and uptake of information in the future. To analyze the qualitative interviews, we met as a team to discuss emergent themes across all four interviews, and arrived at a consensus as to the key takeaways. Next, to identify any (...) and data cleaning to properly learn the product and develop the first iteration of a worksheet. Future iterations were developed in less than a day. Final Product Summary We incorporated data from the chronic pain report into MAGICapp and the Tableau workbook. Specifically, we abstracted data relating to select interventions for chronic low back pain and neck pain from Appendix G of the chronic pain report, in which the strength of evidence tables were presented, and the related forest plots from
10. Registries for Evaluating Patient Outcomes: A User's Guide: Fourth Edition (Draft)
(e.g., COX-2 inhibitors). In some cases, public health authorities mandate such registries to ensure safe use of medications. Examples include registries for thalidomide, clozapine, and isotretinoin. Pregnancy registries represent a separate class of biopharmaceutical product registries that focus on possible exposures during pregnancy and the neonatal consequences. The FDA has a specific guidance focused on pregnancy exposure registries. 63 This guidance uses the term "pregnancy exposure registry
11. Healthy Weight Interventions for the Interpregnancy Period: A Rapid Review
of the Search 7 8 Critical Appraisal 8 9 Description of Included Studies 8 10 Synthesis of Findings 11 11 Applicability and Transferability 17 12 Recommendations 21 References 22 Appendices 23 Appendix A: Distribution of Maternal Pre-pregnancy Body Mass Index 24 Appendix B: Concept Model 25 Appendix C: Search Strategy 26 Appendix D: Literature Search Flowchart 27 Appendix E: Data Extraction Tables 29 Appendix F: Applicability and Transferability Worksheet 51 1 Key Messages 1. Over a third (35%) of women (...) , BMI, total energy and fat intake, and physical activity levels. b. Lau, Y. et al. (2017): Electronic-based lifestyle interventions in overweight or obese perinatal women: a systematic review and meta- analysis. (7) The objective of this review was to assess the effectiveness of e-based lifestyle interventions in improving maternal and neonatal outcomes among perinatal overweight or obese women. A total of 17 articles were included in the review, including 14 RCTs; 5 trials were conducted during
12. Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation in Infants and Children With Cardiac Disease
) the response of the neonate and the postoperative patient with complex CHD to phar- macological intervention can differ from the response of infants and children without heart disease. There is a wide spectrum of cardiac disease in infants and children. Cardiac disease in infants and children is primarily congenital but can be acquired. In many cir- cumstances, the heart defects are surgically corrected or palliated, but blood flow pathways are not normal. Patients can carry the burden of residual lesions (...) ; hyperthermia; hypothermia; hypoplastic left heart syndrome; infant, newborn; infusions, intraosseous; intensive care units, neonatal; intensive care units, pediatrics; ischemia; isoproterenol; kidney injury; kidney; lidocaine; medi- cal response team; mitral valve insufficiency/surgery; natriuretic peptide, brain; neonatology; nitric oxide; Norwood procedures; out-of-hospital cardiac arrest; patient transfer; pediatric early warning system; pe- diatrics; pericardial effusion; pericardial tamponade
13. Assessment, diagnosis and interventions for autism spectrum disorders
14. A literature review of Training Needs Assessment (TRNA) methodology
the questionnaire or its parts to lead epidemiologists in the respective state. Worksheets on training experience and programme areas of work were further disseminated to each enumerated epidemiologist. Deadline for filling in the questionnaire was 3 months. Although not the main objective of this review, the scope of TECHNICAL REPORT A literature review of Training Needs Assessment (TRNA) methodology 11 the assessment described in this study was also of particular interest to us, given the proximity of its
15. Telemedicine in Pediatric Cardiology: A Scientific Statement From the American Heart Association
statement on the use of telemedicine in pediatric cardiology. Specific areas explored in this document include both neonatal and fetal tele-echocardiography, implications for training community sonographers, pulse oximetry programs, qualitative improvement and appropriate use criteria initiatives, and remote electrophysiological monitoring. This document also includes teleconsultation and teleausculation, direct-to-consumer and home monitoring programs, and a look into the use of telemedicine (...) in turn has been shown to improve postnatal surgical and heart transplantation outcomes. Most commonly, fetal tele-echocardiography is used to refer delivery to a place where a neonatal intervention can be performed. A few centers in North America also use tele-echocardiography for referral for fetal intervention. However, fetal tele-echocardiography is also used across all links of the referral chain, from the primary obstetrician's office to the quaternary fetal healthcare facility. It is routinely
16. Effective Interventions for Families and Caregivers to Reduce Tobacco Second-hand Smoke Exposure in Homes: A Rapid Review
The Applicability and Transferability (A&T) worksheet adapted from the National Collaborating Centre for Methods and Tools (18) guided the discussion. 7 A summary of key points from the discussion at the A&T meeting is presented below: ? Political acceptability: Recommendations for smoke-free homes are generally supported by the public and seem to be politically acceptable. Peel Public Health has set Living Tobacco-Free and Nurturing the Next Generation as strategic priorities. Regional Council has also (...) "household*".ti,ab. (132157) 26 "preg*".ti,ab. (699821) 27 exp Pregnancy/ (1223925) 28 exp Pregnant Women/ (11779) 29 29 "neonatal*".ti,ab. (267571) 30 "prenatal".ti,ab. (128861) 31 "infancy".ti,ab. (72384) 32 Maternal Exposure/ (10514) 33 Paternal Exposure/ (1460) 34 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 or 5 or 6 or 7 or 8 or 9 or 10 or 11 or 12 or 13 or 14 or 15 or 16 or 17 or 18 or 19 or 20 or 21 or 22 or 23 or 24 or 25 or 26 or 27 or 28 or 29 or 30 or 31 or 32 or 33 (6761851) 35 exp Environmental Exposure/pc [Prevention
17. A decision aid for pregnant woman with a breech baby
. Sydney: AIHW National Perinatal Statistics Unit (Perinatal Statistics Series no. 11). 11 Yokoe DS, Christiansen CL, Johnson R, Sands KE, Livingston J, Shtatland ES, Platt R. Epidemiology of and surveillance for postpartum infections. Emerging Infectious Diseases 2001;7(5):837–841. 12 Miller JM. Maternal and neonatal morbidity and mortality in caesarean section. Obstetrics and Gynecology Clinics of North America 1988;15(4):629–638. 13 Petitti DB. Maternal mortality and morbidity in caesarean section (...) incontinence during pregnancy and the puerperium. International Journal of Gynaecology and Obstetrics 1981;19:13–20. 28 MacLennan AH, Taylor AW, Wilson DH, Wilson D. The prevalence of pelvic disorders and their relationship to gender, age, parity and mode of delivery. British Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology 2000;170:1460–1470. 29 Morrison JJ, Rennie JM, Milton PJ. Neonatal respiratory morbidity and mode of delivery at term: influence of timing of elective caesarean section. British Journal
18. WHO recommendations for prevention and treatment of maternal peripartum infections
-making 59 Annex 3: Summary and management of declared interests from GDG members 64 Annex 4. Summary of the considerations related to the strength of the recommendations 66 (balance worksheets) CONTENTS The standardized criteria used in grading the evidence and GRADE tables are not included in this document although table numbers (prefixed with EB) are included for ease of reference. The tables have been published in a separate document – WHO recommendations for prevention and treatment of maternal (...) intramuscular IV intravenous MCA [WHO Department of] Maternal, Newborn, Child and Adolescent Health MD mean difference NICU neonatal intensive care unit OR odds ratio PICO population, intervention, comparison, outcome PPROM preterm prelabour rupture of membranes PROM prelabour rupture of membranes RCT randomized controlled trial RHR [WHO Department of] Reproductive Health and Research RR relative risk UK United Kingdom USA United States of America WHO World Health Organization1 Executive summary
19. Cardiac Arrest in Pregnancy
appropriate training and preparation for such events despite their rarity. This scientific statement addresses all of the important factors related to maternal arrest, including maternal physiology as it relates to resuscitation, pre-event planning of the critically ill pregnant patient, risk stratification during pregnancy, management of the unstable pregnant patient, basic life support (BLS) in pregnancy, advanced cardiovascular life support (ACLS) in pregnancy, neonatal considerations, emergency (...) (AHA's) conflict-of-interest management policy. Relevant literature considered for inclusion in this statement was identified through an up-to-date search strategy of the process used for the 2010 International Consensus on Cardiopulmonary Resuscitation and Emergency Cardiovascular Care Science With Treatment Recommendations and the 2010 International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation worksheets, PubMed, Embase, and an AHA master resuscitation reference library. The search also included a review
The effect of stress on memory and learning - University of Amsterdam
The effect of stress on memory and learning
Stress is often associated presented in a negative light because it is associated with illness and premature aging. In the first place, however, stress and stress hormones form an adaptive system that allows us to react quickly and effectively to sudden dangers. Research suggests that chronic stress at an early age could have a negative effect on emotional learning and memory. Jacqueline Arp investigates how mechanisms of memory and learning are affected by certain receptors in the brain that are activated by stress.
Event details of The effect of stress on memory and learning
J.M. Arp: Mineralocorticoid and Glucocorticoid Receptor Balance in Memory Systems: Development and Mechanism.
Impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy on hematological indices among HIV-1 infected children at Kenyatta National Hospital-Kenya | DR. KARIUKI NYAMBURA
DR. KARIUKI NYAMBURA
MB ChB M.Med (Paed); Paediatric Haematology & Oncology, University of London
Email: hnkariuki@uonbi.ac.ke
Impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy on hematological indices among HIV-1 infected children at Kenyatta National Hospital-Kenya
Kibaru EG, Nduati R, D Wamalwa KN, Kariuki N. " Impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy on hematological indices among HIV-1 infected children at Kenyatta National Hospital-Kenya." AIDS Research and Therapy. 2015;(12:26).
A retrospective study was conducted between September and November 2008. During this period medical records of children attending Comprehensive Care Clinic at Kenyatta National hospital were reviewed daily. HIV infected children aged 5-144 months were enrolled if they had received antiretroviral drugs for at least 6 months with available and complete laboratory results.
Medical records of 337 children meeting enrollment criteria were included in the study. The median age was 63 months with equal male to female ratio. Following 6 months of HAART, prevalence of anemia (Hemoglobin (Hb) <10 g/dl) declined significantly from 35.9 to 16.6 % a nearly 50 % reduction in the risk of anemia RR = 0.56 [(95 % CI 0.44, 0.70) p < 0.001]. There was significant increase in Hb, mean corpuscular volume (MCV), mean corpuscular hemoglobin (MCH) and platelets above the baseline measurements (p < 0.0001) and a significant decline in total white blood cell counts >11,000 cell/mm(3) but a none significant decrease in red blood cells (RBC). Pre-HAART, World Health Organization (WHO) stage 3 and 4 was associated with a ten-fold increased likelihood of anemia. Chronic malnutrition was associated with anemia but not wasting and immunologic staging of disease.
Hematological abnormalities changed significantly within 6 months of antiretroviral therapy with significant increase in hemoglobin level, MCV, MCH and platelet and decrease in WBC and RBC.
Changes of hematological parameters; Hematological abnormalities; Paediatric HIV infection
Caregiver oral rehydration solution fluid monitoring charts versus standard care for the management of some dehydration among Kenyan children: a randomized controlled trial.
Baseline Haematological Indices among HIV-1 Infected Children at Kenyatta National Hospital
Managment of immune thrombocytopaenia in children: a review
Characterisation of community acquired non-typhoidal Salmonella from bacteraemia and diarrhoeal infections in children admitted to hospital in Nairobi, Kenya Samuel Kariuki, Gunturu Revathi, Nyambura Kariuki, John Kiiru, Joyce Mwituria, and Charles A Hart
Invasive multidrug-resistant non-typhoidal Salmonella infections in Africa: zoonotic or anthroponotic transmission?J Med Microbiol. 2006 May;55(Pt 5):585-91.PMID: 16585646 [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE] Kariuki S, Revathi G, Kariuki N, Kiiru J, Mwituria J
Shimmer and ClearSky Partner to Provide Insights for CNS Diseases - Physical Therapy Products
Shimmer and ClearSky Partner to Provide Insights for CNS Diseases
Posted by Deborah Overman | Jun 19, 2019 | Multiple Sclerosis | 0 |
Shimmer Research and ClearSky Medical Diagnostics announce they are partnering to bring a new level of analytic capabilities to the use of wearable sensors in clinical research.
This partnership will employ the Verisense wearable sensors platform, which has been designed specifically for use in clinical research, with ClearSky algorithms and machine learning to transform wearables data into actionable insights for central nervous system (CNS) diseases.
Worn on the wrist, the Verisense Inertial Measurement Unit (IMU) sensor is designed to capture biometric data, such as activity and sleep. It can be used for any IMU application with up to seven sensors worn on different parts of a participant's body to aid researchers in studying complex musculoskeletal or neurological conditions, such as dystonia or epilepsy.
ClearSky Medical Diagnostics specializes in developing technologies for the diagnosis and monitoring of Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, and other neurodegenerative conditions. Its clinically validated medical devices have been used in medical centers worldwide and in clinical trials to demonstrate the efficacy of new drugs.
For example, ClearSky's LID-Monitor can distinguish Levodopa-induced dyskinesia from Parkinson's tremors, allowing doctors to optimize Levodopa dosage. This approach significantly improves patients' quality of life and also saves time and money due to the reduction in consultations required, a media release from RANA Healthcare Solutions explains.
"The Verisense platform is truly a breakthrough for conducting clinical research," says Dr Stephen Smith, co-founder of ClearSky Medical Diagnostics, York, England, in the release. "It can provide the continuous raw data from wearables needed for sophisticated algorithms, yet places almost no burden on the participant or the clinical site. It has multiple layers of redundancy and quality checking to ensure that high-quality data are collected without interruption."
"ClearSky's algorithms can be used with Verisense data right away," states Geoff Gill, president of Shimmer Americas, Cambridge, Mass, "but what we are really excited about is the potential for our clinical research customers to leverage ClearSky's experience and datasets to develop endpoints for a wide variety of CNS disorders based on Verisense data.
"ClearSky has taken raw motion data and transformed it with machine learning into actionable insights for physicians in a wide range of applications. This experience is ideally suited to develop endpoints for diseases like Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, Huntington's, and many others using real-world data," he adds, in the release.
Tammany West Charles Marsala Explains Medicare Part D - Tammany West
Charles Marsala Explains Medicare Part D
Charles Marsala January 11, 2015 0
Individuals on Medicare are eligible for prescription drug coverage under a Part D plan if they are signed up for benefits under Medicare Part A and/or Part B.
Beneficiaries obtain the Part D drug benefit through two types of plans administered by private insurance companies: the beneficiaries can join a standalone Prescription Drug Plan (PDP) for drug coverage only or they can join a public Part C health plan that jointly covers all hospital and medical services covered by Medicare Part A and Part B at a minimum, and typically covers additional healthcare costs not covered by Medicare Parts A and B including prescription drugs.
About two-thirds of all Medicare beneficiaries are enrolled directly in Part D or get Part-D-like benefits through a public Part C Medicare Advantage health plan. Another large group of Medicare beneficiaries get prescription drug coverage under plans offered by former employers.
Generally, not all drugs are covered at the same out of pocket cost to the beneficiary. This gives participants incentives to choose certain drugs over others.
Beneficiaries already on a plan can choose a different plan or choose to drop Part C or Part D during an annual enrollment period or during multiple other times during the year. Currently, the annual enrollment period lasts from October 15 to December 7 of each year.
Medicare beneficiaries who were eligible for but did not enroll in a Part D when they were first eligible and later want to enroll, pay a late-enrollment penalty, basically a premium surtax, if they did not have creditable coverage through another source such as an employer or the U.S. Veterans Administration.
This article is for informational purposes only. Contact the appropriate professional to determine how this applies to your unique situation.
About the Author: Charles Marsala is a Financial Advisor with Benchmark Investment Group with Securities offered through LPL Financial, a member FINRA/SIPC. He can be contacted at Charles.Marsala@lpl.com
The purpose of this article is to highlight some of the international research conducted in the field of citizenship education, and discuss the contents of people’s citizenship that are visible in the steering instruments of the Swedish compulsory- and upper secondary schools such as the school law, curriculum and syllabi. Of interest has been the study on how these control instruments describe and illustrate the concept of citizenship and the related concepts. The study highlights the content that is expected to be taught compared with the actual experiences from citizenship education research.
In this research, textual analysis is used as a method to review the structure of the text and to scrutinize the content.
From the analysis of the national steering documents, it is possible to argue that young people in Sweden have the opportunity to both learn about democracy and be active citizens. It can also be argued that students have the opportunity to be a part of the democratic working framework in practice, which can prepare them for active participation in society later in life. However, this research does not give any answer to whether what is political rhetoric in documents is also the educational outcome of the pedagogical practice.
Full Text:
PDF
DOI: https://doi.org/10.5296/jse.v3i2.3321
Refbacks
There are currently no refbacks.
Copyright (c)
Journal of Studies in Education ISSN 2162-6952
Email: jse@macrothink.org
Copyright © Macrothink Institute
To make sure that you can receive messages from us, please add the 'macrothink.org' domain to your e-mail 'safe list'. If you do not receive e-mail in your 'inbox', check your 'bulk mail' or 'junk mail' folders.
