The Best Leaky Gut Treatment Using Natural Medications
The increased permeability of the gut lining is referred to as a leaky gut. The digestive tract has been destroyed, allowing undigested meals and other harmful intruders to enter the bloodstream and harm the immune system. It is not a medically recognized condition, but the research that supports the theory of leaky gut treatment Melbourne syndrome and related disorders is compelling. It may offer an alternative treatment option for many people suffering from chronic illnesses such as irritable bowel syndrome, food intolerances and allergies, eczema, asthma, autoimmune conditions, and mood disorders.
Leaky gut syndrome is a medical disorder where the stomach lining becomes too porous. It harms the digestive tract and lets uncooked meals and undesirable microbial material into circulation. It is a digestive illness linked to various conditions, including autoimmune disease, asthma, allergies, mood swings, fibromyalgia, chronic tiredness, hormone disorders, food intolerances, and eczema. The usage of pain relievers, acidic beverages, GMO foods, antibiotics, and alcohol are potential causes of leaky gut syndrome. You may have leaky gut syndrome if you have difficulty eating, have persistent stomach pain, or experience regular indigestion.
You should have your symptoms evaluated by a skilled physician who can advise you on the best treatments and remedies. They can advise you on food and lifestyle changes that can help you control your disease and enhance your quality of life.
The oligoscan Melbourne analyses the trace elements, minerals, and heavy metals in your body using high-frequency light spectrophotometry. This equates to 20 necessary minerals and trace elements and 14 harmful heavy metals. It scans the palm of your hand to measure and discover shortages and excess levels.
So, How Exactly Do Oligoscan Work?
The OligoScan uses Photospectometry to detect the distinct signature of each element, mineral, and heavy metal. This works because each substance absorbs or reflects a different quantity of light at a particular wavelength. The OligoScan detects this light, absorbs it with the Spectrophotometer, and generates a numerical result that it then analyses. The test is brief, and the findings are immediate. All that is necessary is the palm of your hand, where we may swiftly scan four locations, as seen in the figure below.
The live blood analysis Melbourne is a fantastic tool for discovering the mysteries hidden inside your blood cells. This test involves obtaining a single drop of blood and examining it under an intense microscope. The image is then relayed to a screen to be examined in real-time, and the findings are analyzed as you watch. A more comprehensive case study for your Naturopathy appointment can be provided via Live Blood Analysis. It enables your Naturopath to identify possible health risks such as liver stress, inflammation, infection, immunological suppression, digestive disorders, mineral, and nutritional shortages, gastrointestinal problems, weight issues, sugar imbalances, yeast or fungal infections, toxicity, and more.
The weight loss clinic Melbourne and solutions that work focus on optimizing your food, exercise routines and lowering unhealthy lifestyle choices. If you seek effective weight reduction solutions, you may speak with experienced physicians who can assess your weight issues and create unique weight loss plans based on your specific needs. Losing extra weight and body fat may considerably enhance physical and emotional well-being and increase sports performance, muscular tone, metabolism, and stamina. You can see substantial weight reduction outcomes by following a specific action plan.
Bowen therapy Malvern is a multifaceted and holistic approach to pain management and healing that has yielded extraordinary results over the last 50 years. It is a fantastic complimentary method that complements rather than competes with other medical therapies. So, what occurs during a typical treatment? Each treatment lasts around 45 minutes and involves work on the skin or light garments. It consists of tiny, gentle movements, each targeting a different body part. Light cross-fiber motions across a muscle, tendon, or ligament are used instead of vigorous manipulation. Bowen therapy Malvern Melbourneis a sequence of rolling activities with changing touch that recovers your system's cellular memory. As a result, it returns the body to its optimal balanced state rather than the erroneous one caused by pain, strain, bad posture, or other diseases.
Every experience has been stored in your body/mind. kinesiology Malvern (kin-easy-ology) is a holistic health field founded in the 1960s by chiropractor Dr. George Goodheart, who blended Western and Eastern practices to establish Applied Kinesiology. He employed Kinesiology to release blockages and address the root cause of the problem, eliciting emotional and physical components of the health condition. Kinesiology accesses and defuses a significant amount of the tension and anxiety at the foundation of many health issues. It does this by muscle testing and bio-feedback, which is akin to having direct access to your brain's blueprint.
Toorak Kinesiology
Every event you've ever had, including emotions, anxieties, memories, and so on, has been stored in your body/mind. This impacts your present state of health, frequently resulting in physical discomfort, disease, anxiety, stress, digestive imbalance, relationship troubles, low confidence, sadness, etc. This information, along with various procedures, is used by your Kinesiologist to unblock energy and alleviate tension. Acupressure, reflex points, Chi & meridian treatment, particular body motions, Bach Flower Essences, dietary and lifestyle adjustments, and so on are examples of these approaches. The kinesiology Glen Iris may aid in relieving pain, tension, muscle, and nerve problems detect dietary sensitivities and nutritional deficiencies, assist with learning issues, stimulate energy, and release untapped potential. It is safe for people of all ages to enhance physical, mental, and emotional well-being.
Where To Get The Best Kinesiology Treatment In Melbourne
The kinesiology Melbourne at Malvern Natural Health Care is here to encourage, support, and advise you as you make the magnificent changes you're ready for and face a brighter day.
Fitness : ePrescribe
17 FebStuebe did the research while at Brigham and Women s Hospital in Boston.
Stuebe did the research while at Brigham and Women 's Hospital in Boston, the results were. Published May 19, 2009 in the online version of the American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology.
For now Stuebe says, their study results offer guidelines for moms healthy choices healthy choices during pregnancy. 'The next step is to investigate whether mothers that that advice healthier weight gain than those who do not do this,'she says. Read more…
Professor Lars Wallentin group investigator of the PLATO genetic part of the study and Professor of Cardiology and Research Director at the Uppsala University, Sweden, said:. Read more…
15 FebFederal investigators told the Reuters news agency geneerinen zithromax suomesta.
Federal investigators told the Reuters news agency, story, whichint targeted women diagnosed with breast cancer geneerinen zithromax suomesta . By WellPoint launched fraud investigations against the women, it sought some pretext to drop whose policies, says Reuters. Their insurance was repealed say the company used small errors in their medical records or insurance documents as an excuse to cancel their policies or deny them coverage for potentially life-saving procedures and treatments.
In February 2009, Anthem agreed to pay a $ 1,000 fine and $ 14 million in restitution to an action by the California Department of Insurance alleged that the company brought to settle illegally in 2330 repealed policies. A year earlier, it was agreed to pay a $ 10,000 penalty for charges arising from the California Department of Managed Health Care that it illegally removed policies to regulate more than 1,100. Read more…
Risk factors for the infection and/or colonization of extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing bacteria in a neonatal intensive care unit: a meta-analysis
作者:Ying Qing , Shuai Chen ...
摘要:Abstract(#br)Background(#br)Extended-spectrum beta-lactamase (ESBL)-producing bacteria are the important causes of healthcare associated infection in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). This study performed a meta-analysis to identify the risk factors associated with infecti...
作者:Ying Qing , Houfang Lu ...
来源:[J].Chinese Journal of Chemical Engineering(IF 0.92), 2018Elsevier
摘要:Abstract(#br)The biodiesel production technology catalyzed by 1,8-diazabicycloundec-7-ene (DBU) is developed in this work. Crude glycerol containing DBU and DBU/glycerol/CO 2 (DGC) ionic compounds reacts directly with dimethyl carbonate (DMC) to produce high value-added glyc...
作者:Ying Qing , Qi Shi ...
来源:[J].Biochemical and Biophysical Research Communications(IF 2.406), 2017, Vol.491 (3), pp.571-577Elsevier
摘要:Abstract(#br)Human umbilical mesenchymal stem cells (UCMSCs) have been wildly used in tissue engineering field as a promising source because of their unlimited and noninvasive origin. To selectively induce osteogenic differentiation of UCMSCs, it's imperative to understand the re...
作者:Ying Qing , Xiaolan Deng ...
来源:[J].Cell(IF 31.957), 2018, Vol.172 (1-2), pp.90-105.e23Elsevier
摘要:Summary(#br)R-2-hydroxyglutarate (R-2HG), produced at high levels by mutant isocitrate dehydrogenase 1/2 (IDH1/2) enzymes, was reported as an oncometabolite. We show here that R-2HG also exerts a broad anti-leukemic activity in vitro and in vivo by inhibiting leukemia cell prolif...
作者:Ying Qing , Xinyi Huang ...
A tunable isoelectric focusing via moving reaction boundary for two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and proteomics
作者:Ying Qing , Liu-Yin Fan ...
来源:[J].Talanta(IF 3.498), 2015, Vol.137, pp.197-203Elsevier
摘要:Abstract(#br)Routine native immobilized pH gradient isoelectric focusing (IPG-IEF) and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) are still suffering from unfortunate reproducibility, poor resolution (caused by protein precipitation) and instability in characterization of intact p...
来源:[J].Microbial Pathogenesis(IF 1.974), 2017, Vol.104, pp.164-170Elsevier
摘要:Abstract(#br)Background(#br)Integrons are mobile genetic elements that play an important role in the distribution of antibiotic-resistance genes among bacteria. This study aimed to investigate the distribution of integrons in clinical isolates of Klebsiella pneumoniae and explore...
作者:Ying Qing , Dong Wang
来源:[J].Biosensors and Bioelectronics(IF 5.437), 2009, Vol.24 (7), pp.2246-2249Elsevier
摘要:Abstract(#br)A simple and sensitive method for in situ amplified electrochemical immunoassay of human serum IgG has been developed by using double-codified nanosilica particles as labels based on horseradish peroxidase-doped nanosilica particles (HRP–SiO 2 ) with the conjuga...
Master of public health thesis and capstone presentations a comprehensive program, it develops competencies in five key public health areas - behavioral and social sciences, biostatistics, environmental health sciences, epidemiology and health policy, advocacy and management. In an effort to begin to more effectively address childhood obesity, this thesis reviewed current literature on the existence and ramifications of obesity in children and healthcare provider growth monitoring practices and challenges, generally. Explain why obesity is the problem, how many kids suffer from it, determine the age group, determine the regions with the highest child obesity levels provide the data why do kids suffer from it, what are the reasons. Non-invasive biomarkers of insulin resistance and brain dysfunction in obesity the increasing prevalence of type 2 diabetes and insulin resistance in western societies is closely associated with obesity and the excessive consumption of hypercaloric food products.
Thesis will study the effectiveness of the csh programs' components and of school authorities in reducing childhood obesity, and their shortcomings the results will help guide school health. Thesis begins with a definition of the obesity epidemic, followed by a discussion of research into the multiple causal factors associated with childhood obesity particular emphasis is placed on.
You should send master's thesis, doctoral thesis/ dissertation as pdf file attachment to [email protected] how much time it will take to get my thesis/ dissertations on obesity published. This thesis is brought to you for free and open access by the graduate school at uknowledge it has been accepted for inclusion in university of kentucky master's theses by an authorized administrator of uknowledge. This master's thesis is brought to you for free and open access by the dietetics and human nutrition at uknowledge it has been accepted for inclusion in theses and dissertations--dietetics and human nutrition by an authorized administrator of uknowledge. Essay easy genetic engineering essay thesis for research paper on obesity as the main academic writing of thesis helper malaysia some 27 per cent of obesity paper research thesis for on all the technical and the sort of know where to start. Three great thesis statement ideas for obesity research paper obesity, although not a serious disease but of much concerned today in western countries especially, this is why it is often assigned to the students to write research paper on it.
Master thesis modeling the development of obesity in populations maximilian bugler¨ master thesis 12-17 thesis submitted in partial fulﬁllment of the requirements for the degree of master of science. Maples, jill murren, physical activity, sedentary, and dietary behaviors related to overweight/obesity among adolescents involved in a creative, problem-solving program master's thesis, university of tennessee, 2009. A thesis is the most difficult and important piece of writing one performs in his career picking and choosing a topic for any project or dissertation is very important the best way to succeed and complete the assignment within the due date is by selecting the right topic.
If you need a high-quality custom written dissertation - feel free to contact our professional custom dissertation writing company which provides college and university students with custom undergraduate, master's, mba and phd dissertations, thesis papers and research proposals at an affordable cost any topics. My master thesis female and gender leadership i am starting from introduction to the writing work, than writing about theoretical framework and research methodology, after that continue with research and investigation, which includes research question and answers on it through. While it is commonly believed that there is a relationship between obesity and depression, the extant research has been inconclusive and inconsistent on this topic.
Results from an ongoing randomized controlled trial of obesity obesity thesis writing service to help in writing a graduate obesity thesis for a master thesis degreefind a phd search funded phd projects, programs & scholarships in obesity in the uk. Addressing childhood obesity through school-based prevention programs greco, lisa marie (2008) addressing childhood obesity through school-based prevention programs master's thesis, university of pittsburgh. Our obesity experts can research and write a new, one-of-a-kind, original dissertation, thesis, or research proposal—just for you—on the precise obesity topic of your choice our final document will match the exact specifications that you provide, guaranteed.
Our childhood obesity experts can research and write a new, one-of-a-kind, original dissertation, thesis, or research proposal—just for you—on the precise childhood obesity topic of your choice.
Ii approval page master of science thesis overweight and obesity in health care workers in relation to musculoskeletal conditions and weight loss.
Obesity in children 9 while none of the medications currently available is a miracle drug for curing the nation's 9 million obese children, research. Early parental predictors of adolescent obesity in santiago, chile the impact of pre-injury levels of depression among complicated and uncomplicated cases of mild traumatic brain injury on functional outcomes 3 months post-injury. Students completing master of science in human nutrition, combined with the dietetic internship, engage in a variety of thesis research projects in conjunction with the world-class faculty and staff at ohsu. Perceptions about overweight and obesity among college students: application of the health belief model a thesis by master of science may 2017 department of.
Rowena de los Reyes Laroza, Ed. D
Abstract: The study aimed to determine the validity and effectiveness of the developed modules in the subject Social Orientation(Soc. Or.) or Personality Development and Public Relations (PDPR). This study was conducted at the University of Rizal System-Morong Campus during the First Semester of School Year 2009-2010 with 15 PDPR professors and 30 second year students of Bachelor of Technology major in Hotel and Restaurant Management as the respondent-evaluators in the study. Descriptive-experimental method of research using the questionnaire-checklist and test results in gathering data was used in the conduct of the study. The PDPR professors validated the modules based on the following criteria: objectives, subject matter, organization and presentation, language and style and usefulness of the module. Pretest-post test design was used to determine the performance of the control and experimental group in which the students were equated and divided into two groups. Mean, standard deviation and rank distribution were used as statistical tools in treating the data. T-test was utilized to test the significant difference between the mean performance of the control and experimental group as revealed by the post test results. It was found out that the modules in PDPR were very much valid as an instructional material. This is shown in the high performance of the experimental group as revealed in their pretest and post test results. The modules in PDPR were perceived to be very much effective by students and professors.
Rowena de los Reyes Laroza, Ed. D (2018); Validation and Effectiveness of Modules in Personality Development and Public Relations; Int J Sci Res Publ 5(9) (ISSN: 2250-3153). http://www.ijsrp.org/research-paper-0915.php?rp=P454495
A. General Recommendations: Anthrax is not spread from person to person and there is no need to isolate the patient.
Nasal swabs are not a clinically useful tool for diagnosis of anthrax and are not recommended.
B. General Signs and Symptoms of Anthrax
Cutaneous Disease: usually begins as a small papule, which enlarges and progresses to a vesicle or bulla in 1-2 days. The vesicles may become hemorrhagic, with satellite vesicles. The lesion then ulcerates and forms a black eschar (necrotic ulcer) in 3 to 7 days. The lesion is usually painless and the tissue surrounding the skin lesion is often erythematous, and may have varying degrees of edema (brawny, gelatinous, non-pitting edema). Patients may have fever, malaise, headache and regional lymphadenopathy. The case fatality rate for cutaneous anthrax is 20% without and < 1% with antibiotic treatment. Cutaneous anthrax is not easily transmissible from person to person, although there is a very low risk of infection if there is direct contact with the drainage from an open sore. The incubation period is usually from 1-7 days, but may range up to 15 days. Inhalational Disease: classically presents as a brief prodrome resembling a viral respiratory illness followed by development of hypoxia and dyspnea, with radiographic evidence of mediastinal widening. However, in some recent cases of inhalational anthrax, patients have presented with acute onset of fever, dry cough, and hilar or mediastinal adenopathy and lung infiltrates or pleural effusions. URI symptoms have been absent. Chest x-ray may have evidence of mediastinal widening, but chest CT scan may be more sensitive for mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Meningitis can occur, and the spinal or pleural fluid may be hemorrhagic. However, blood and pleural fluid cultures may be negative, and diagnosis may need to be made by additional studies such as PCR, serology, or immunohistochemistry available only at reference laboratories at the CDC. Inhalational anthrax is the most lethal form of anthrax, and symptoms can progress quickly to respiratory failure or shock. The incubation period of inhalational anthrax among humans is unclear, but it is reported to most often range between 1 and 7 days, and on rare occasion can extend out to 60 days post exposure. Case-fatality rate estimates for inhalational anthrax are based on incomplete information regarding exposed populations and infected populations in the few case series and studies that have been published. However, the case-fatality rate is high, and early treatment, in the prodromal stage, is much more effective in preventing severe illness and death. NJDHSS requests that all providers seeing patients with a non-specific, febrile flu-like illness obtain a thorough employment history, including whether the patient is a postal worker or handles mail, and ask about any exposure to suspicious letters or powders in the preceding week. High-risk groups are defined as any of the following: Postal workers, especially if they work or spend time in (a) a mail distribution center where automated sorting machines are operating or (b) in a New Jersey postal facility.
Employees of media corporations or other high-profile companies/institutions (e.g., government organizations), especially if they routinely handle mail. Persons reporting a potential high-risk exposure to contaminated powder in the week prior to illness onset (e.g., aerosolization of powder when opening or handling a letter deemed to be a credible threat; criteria for a credible threat include an envelope containing powder that is either (a) addressed to a high-profile person or corporation and/or (b) if the letter contains a written threat). Healthcare providers who see patients in one of these high risk groups presenting with a recent onset (i.e. within the preceding 7 days) of a non-specific febrile, flu-like illness should consider the possibility of early inhalational anthrax infection. C. A suspicious case of CUTANEOUS ANTHRAX is defined as: Any person with a highly suspicious skin lesion: An ulcerative lesion with surrounding edema or vesicles,
A blackened eschar forming 3 to 7 days after onset of skin lesion.
Any person with a less suspicious skin lesion: An ulcerative or necrotic lesion, AND
A risk exposure history. At this time, this includes postal workers or delivery persons in regular contact with postal facilities.
Any person with a less suspicious skin lesion: An ulcerative or necrotic lesion AND
Laboratory evidence suggestive of possible B. anthracis infection. Examples include: Gram stain showing positive bacilli from a skin lesion, sterile fluid, or tissue Culture showing encapsulated non-motile, non-hemolytic bacilli from any body fluid or site.
All patients with a skin lesion characteristic of cutaneous anthrax, with or without a known exposure, should have a complete blood count and blood cultures drawn (prior to the administration of antibiotics), and then be treated presumptively with antibiotics and referred to a physician, such as a dermatologist, who is experienced in the management of ulcerative lesions. Ciprofloxacin or doxycycline should be given until susceptibilities are known. If the isolate is susceptible, penicillin or amoxicillin are acceptable alternatives. If laboratory testing is positive for cutaneous anthrax, treatment should continue for at least 14 days (treatment may need to be extended for 60 days if there was a known aerosol exposure).
D. A suspicious case of INHALATIONAL or meningeal anthrax is defined as a patient with:
Sepsis or respiratory distress with a widened mediastinum or pleural effusion, especially if hemorrhagic.
Sepsis with gram-positive rods OR a suspicious Bacillus species identified in blood or cerebrospinal fluid. To assist in the diagnostic work-up, providers should obtain blood cultures (obtained prior to the administration of antibiotics), a complete blood count and a chest radiograph (to evaluate for mediastinal widening and/or pleural effusions) to diagnose possible early inhalational anthrax infection.
E. Evaluation of Patients:
Nasal swabs are not recommended for determination of anthrax exposure or assessing need for post exposure prophylaxis. Nasal swabs and blood serum tests are used as epidemiological tools to characterize an outbreak when there is a known confirmed biologic agent in an environmental sample. Nasal swabs are not diagnostic tools for anthrax in asymptomatic people, and a positive or negative nasal swab test gives no information on whether a person is infected.
Asymptomatic patient WITHOUT known exposure to a confirmed culture-positive letter/package or environmental sample: Antibiotic prophylaxis is ONLY recommended at this time for postal workers, and persons who visited inside the mail sorting area, such as business visitors, to the Hamilton or West Trenton postal facilities, since September 18, 2001. These guidelines will be updated as more information is available.
Asymptomatic patient WITH potential exposure to a confirmed culture-positive letter/package/environment: Public health authorities should be consulted to determine whether post-exposure prophylaxis has been recommended for the potential exposure. See below section for antibiotic prophylaxis recommendations. Decontaminating the patient, other than by routine washing with soap and water, IS NOT indicated or recommended. Patients with symptoms/signs compatible with anthrax WITHOUT a known, confirmed culture-positive environmental exposure: Confirm/rule out the diagnosis by obtaining the appropriate laboratory specimens based on the clinical form of anthrax that is suspected (inhalation or cutaneous)
See guidelines below for appropriate specimen collection for the diagnosis of anthrax infection. In a suspected case of anthrax, you must notify your state and local health departments immediately. In particular, a high index of suspicion should be maintained for postal workers, and unexplained febrile respiratory illness or unusual or unexplained cutaneous lesions in postal workers should be reported to the state and local health departments.
Physicians should also consider other diagnoses and treat accordingly. Based on the clinical assessment, treatment that includes antibiotics effective against anthrax should be included. Patients with symptoms/signs compatible with anthrax, WITH a known, confirmed culture-positive environmental exposure: Confirm/rule out the diagnosis by obtaining the appropriate laboratory specimens based on the clinical form of anthrax that is suspected (inhalation or cutaneous)
See guidelines below for appropriate specimen collection for the diagnosis of anthrax infection. In a suspected case of anthrax, you must notify your state and local health department immediately.
Begin antibiotic therapy that is effective against anthrax
In light of the ongoing outbreak of intentional anthrax associated with contaminated letters, the NJDHSS requests that physicians maintain an increased level of awareness for the occurrence of milder illness that may represent the early warning symptoms of inhalational disease among persons at higher risk for exposure to aerosolized anthrax spores from contaminated letters. NJDHSS requests that all providers seeing patients with a non-specific, febrile flu-like illness obtain a thorough employment history, including whether the patient handles mail, and ask about any recent exposure to suspicious letters or powders. TESTING FOR ANTHRAX AND USE OF POST EXPOSURE PROPHYLACTIC ANTIBIOTICS IN NEW JERSEY
The recent bioterrorist attack causing an outbreak of anthrax in several states, including New Jersey, has stressed the resources of the public health care system. Part of that stress is a result of some misconceptions on the part of health care providers and the public that must be addressed to eliminate the inappropriate use of tests and antibiotics that could lead to adverse effects among patients. This addresses those issues and is directed at health care providers to assist them in their efforts to manage their patients in a medically sound approach, given our current knowledge.
The NJDHSS discourages the use of nasal swabs for assessing patients concerned about exposure to anthrax as they are not a clinically useful tool. The use of nasal swabs in recent investigations in Florida, NYC, DC, and New Jersey has been for epidemiologic purposes, in order to help determine where suspicious letters were handled in the work area around a confirmed case. The results have been used to guide further investigation and to determine the source of exposure, and to make overall recommendations on prophylaxis for persons involved at the site regardless of individual nasal swab test results.
There is no screening test available for the detection of anthrax infection in an asymptomatic person. The sensitivity and specificity and clinical value of nasal swab testing for an individual patient are unknown. The presence of anthrax spores in the nose only indicates recent exposure and has no predictive value regarding the number of spores inhaled or infectious status of the individual. In addition, nasal swab tests may be reported preliminarily as positive for Bacillus species but may ultimately be negative for B. anthracis when tested in the State Lab.
Serologic tests are available at reference laboratories such as the CDC, but are only performed in symptomatic individuals with a clinical picture consistent with inhalational or cutaneous disease. Serology is not used as a screening or preliminary test in individuals. Preliminary blood tests in symptomatic individuals being evaluated for anthrax, should instead focus on blood cultures (BEFORE antibiotic therapy).
The New Jersey Department of Health and Senior Services (NJDHSS) continues to strongly urge physicians NOT to prescribe post exposure prophylactic antibiotics for persons who are not among the groups recommended for this. At this time, those recommended for PEP are the following: Postal workers or business visitors to the work areas at the Route 130 Mail Processing Facility in Hamilton Postal workers at the West Trenton Postal Facility in Ewing Township Although we recognize the heightened concern regarding the threat of bioterrorism with the unfolding events of the past several weeks, antibiotic therapy in asymptomatic individuals should be limited to persons with a known risk exposure.
HOW TO REPORT A SUSPICIOUS CASE OF ANTHRAX:
Call the NJDHSS immediately at: 609-588-7500, off hours at 609-392-2020 or the Emergency Operations Center at 609-538-6030
Please have the following information, if available: Patient name Patient contact information Medical history Illness onset date Characteristics and progression of skin lesion Presence of systemic symptoms Treatment history Laboratory and radiologic data Detailed exposure and employment history This information will be used to help determine the patient's risk for anthrax infection. When you call to report a case, we will help to determine whether further testing is necessary.
A. If it is determined that the patient is a SUSPICIOUS CASE OF CUTANEOUS ANTHRAX the patient should be evaluated by a dermatologist or another physician experienced in the evaluation of ulcerative lesions. If this physician assesses the lesion to be suspicious, the specimens detailed below will be requested. Laboratory testing at the CDC will be prioritized for selected cases only. NJDHSS will arrange transport of the diagnostic specimens from your facility to the NJ Public Health and Environmental Laboratories (PHEL) ONLY AFTER THE CASE HAS BEEN REVIEWED BY NJDHSS. Microbiologic cultures of suspected B. anthracis can be sent to the PHEL.
For SUSPICIOUS CASES OF CUTANEOUS ANTHRAX, recommended specimens include: Culture and gram stain of skin lesion or skin biopsy for testing at your routine microbiology laboratory: Synthetic (non-cotton) swab with non-wooden stick for culture and gram stain of material swabbed from the exudate or the most actively inflamed area of the eschar.
Sterile punch biopsy specimen should be sent in sterile saline for culture Send to routine hospital laboratory. If suspicious Bacillus species is identified, contact NJDHSS immediately. Two skin biopsies for PCR, culture and immunohistochemical staining at CDC:
(If only one biopsy is obtained, it should be placed in formalin). One biopsy specimen in formalin, kept at room temperature, for histopathology and immunohistochemical staining. Paraffin-embedded specimens are acceptable as well. One biopsy specimen in a sterile cup, frozen at -70 C or placed on dry ice, for culture and PCR. If dry ice is unavailable or undeliverable, refrigerate and ship on regular ice.
Acute serum for ELISA testing for B. anthracis at CDC (Ideally within 5 days of illness onset)
Collect ~5 ml of whole blood in a serum separator tube, refrigerate or keep at room temperature.
Spin down as soon as possible.
After spinning, separate serum and freeze the tube of serum at -70 C or place on dry ice. If dry ice is unavailable or undeliverable, store frozen and ship on ice.
Convalescent serum for ELISA testing for B. anthracis at CDC (14-21 days after acute sera) Collect ~5 ml of whole blood in a serum separator tube, refrigerate or keep at room temperature.
Spin down as soon as possible After spinning, separate serum and freeze the tube of serum at -70 C or place on dry ice. If dry ice is unavailable or undeliverable, store frozen and ship on ice.
If the patient is a suspicious case of cutaneous anthrax and is febrile or hospitalized, please also collect:
Gram stain and blood culture:
Send to routine hospital laboratory, if suspicious Bacillus species* is identified, contact immediately Whole blood for PCR: (red top tube) Please be sure to completely and clearly label all specimens with the following information: PATIENTS FIRST AND LAST NAME DATE OF BIRTH DATE OF COLLECTION OF SPECIMEN SITE OF SPECIMEN COLLECTION METHOD OF PRESERVATION (formalin, paraffin, frozen) REMINDER: Specimens will NOT be accepted by PHEL unless clinician has reported and discussed the case with NJDHSS.
B. If it is determined that the patient is A SUSPICIOUS CASE OF INHALATIONAL ANTHRAX, the diagnostic workup should include the tests listed below:
Gram stain and routine blood cultures.
If meningeal signs are present, gram stain and culture of CSF. If pleural fluid is present, gram stain and culture of pleural fluid. Chest X-ray and/or chest CT to assess for mediastinal and hilar adenopathy. Specimens that should be submitted to the NJDHSS and/or CDC include: Cultures positive for suspicious Bacillus species* Whole blood for PCR -(red top tube) Acute serum for ELISA testing for B. anthracis at CDC (Ideally within 5 days of illness onset) Collect ~5 ml of whole blood in a serum separator tube, refrigerate or keep at room temperature. Spin down as soon as possible.
After spinning, separate serum and freeze the tube of serum at -70 C or place on dry ice Convalescent serum for ELISA testing for B. anthracis at CDC (14-21 days after acute sera) Collect ~5 ml of whole blood in a serum separator tube, refrigerate or keep at room temperature. Spin down as soon as possible.
After spinning, separate serum and freeze the tube of serum at -70 C or place on dry ice. Please be sure to completely and clearly label all specimens with the following information: PATIENTS FIRST AND LAST NAME DATE OF BIRTH DATE OF COLLECTION OF SPECIMEN SITE OF SPECIMEN COLLECTION METHOD OF PRESERVATION (formalin, paraffin, frozen) REMINDER: Specimens will NOT be accepted by PHEL unless the clinician has reported and discussed the case with NJDHSS.
C. If it is determined that the patient is LESS LIKELY TO BE A CASE OF CUTANEOUS ANTHRAX, i.e., the patient has skin lesions in which cutaneous anthrax is on the differential diagnosis, BUT the clinician does not strongly suspect it AND/OR there is low or no risk exposure history AND/OR there is no existing laboratory evidence of Bacillus infection, referral to a dermatologist is recommended. Laboratory testing for cases that are less suspicious for anthrax should be performed using local medical laboratories.
For post-exposure prophylaxis and treatment recommendations see website at http//www.cdc.gov.
Susceptibility results have been performed on the isolates from New Jersey, Florida, New York City and Washington, DC, and all are sensitive to penicillin, amoxicillin, chloramphenicol, tetracycline, clindamycin, ciprofloxacin, and vancomycin. Susceptibilities of the isolate to ceftriaxone and erythromycin were considered intermediate. (Note: Naturally occurring Bacillus anthracis is generally resistant to extended spectrum cephalosporins). The CDC reports that susceptibility data indicates the presence of a cephalosporinase and suggests the presence of a penicillinase as well. Therefore, CDC advises against using penicillin or penicillin-class drugs alone for treatment of anthrax infections. More detailed information on the revised antibiotic recommendations for management of anthrax exposures is available at MMWR site at cdc.gov.
For patients presenting to hospital emergency departments carrying suspicious material with them, the following are recommendations on handling these materials: DO NOT PANIC
Shower with lots of soap and water as soon as possible. Do not use bleach or disinfectant on your skin. For more information, please visit the DHSS website at www.state.nj.us/health.
Ketamine and Cognitive Function in Depression: Detrimental, Neutral, or Advantageous? | Psychiatrist.com
J Clin Psychiatry 2022;83(1):21com14243
To cite: Goldberg JF. Ketamine and cognitive function in depression: detrimental, neutral, or advantageous? J Clin Psychiatry. 2022;83(1):21com14243.
To share: https://doi.org/10.4088/JCP.21com14243
*Corresponding author: Joseph F. Goldberg, MD,128 East Ave, Norwalk, CT 06851 (joseph.goldberg@mssm.edu).
See article by Vaccarino et al
Cognitive function remains one of the lesser-appreciated outcomes in clinical intervention trials for mood disorders—despite the fact that impaired attention, executive function, and processing speed are commonly associated with depression.1,2 Monoaminergic antidepressants have collectively shown modestly positive, though inconsistent, effects on cognitive function during treatment for major depression; effect sizes tend to be small, and domains other than psychomotor speed and delayed recall may not show appreciable impact.3 The field has long sought to identify antidepressant interventions that can improve domains of cognitive function associated with depression, or at the very least spare any worsening of cognitive performance as often occurs with anticholinergic or antihistaminergic compounds.
In this issue of the Journal, the review of cognitive effects associated with ketamine treatment for major depression by Vaccarino et al4 is especially timely and pertinent on several levels. First, interest in the use of ketamine as a novel intervention for treatment-resistant depression has grown enormously in the past few years: a MEDLINE search of the linked terms major depression and ketamine finds a tripling of annual citations from 2013 to the present, and currently there are over 200 worldwide studies related to ketamine and depression registered on ClinicalTrials.gov. Although the mechanisms of action of ketamine are diverse,5 ketamine's effects on glutamate modulation via blockade of the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor are still thought to contribute to its antidepressant efficacy; however, randomized trials with a number of other NMDA receptor antagonists in major depression (such as memantine, riluzole, or rapastinel) have yielded mixed results.6 In principle, ketamine is believed to exert neuroprotective effects by stimulating synaptogenesis through neurotrophic pathways such as mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) in the prefrontal cortex.7
Second, despite enthusiasm about the aforementioned putative mechanistic actions, there has been little consistent information about whether ketamine is associated with predictably beneficial, detrimental, or neutral effects on cognitive function. Vaccarino et al4 note from their review that, at present, the available data do not reveal a procognitive effect when ketamine is efficacious in the treatment of depression—although the absence of evidence does not prove the evidence of absence. No prospective trials with ketamine have, as yet, been conducted with cognitive function as a primary or coprimary outcome measure in major depression, limiting the ability to test the hypothesis that ketamine could improve cognition or assess whether an interaction may exist between improvement in depression and cognitive function. Herein lies a major methodological conundrum based on the existing literature: the available data preclude knowing when cognitive improvement (as has been noted in several open as well as randomized trials) might be a pseudospecific artifact of improvement from depression or when it might be a standalone consequence of ketamine, or whether there may be instances in which depression symptoms could improve but adverse cognitive effects nevertheless emerge iatrogenically (as often occurs after electroconvulsive therapy [ECT]). Dedicated studies are needed to parse these important distinctions, as was done in trials of vortioxetine in major depression (in which path analyses showed an independent procognitive drug effect while controlling for changes in depression symptoms over time).8
Third, and perhaps most compelling, are data separate from the present undertaking which show that patients who chronically abuse ketamine demonstrate deficits in executive function and visual/verbal memory as compared to healthy controls, who appear to recover after 12 weeks of abstinence from ketamine.9 Neuroimaging studies among adolescent- and young adult–onset chronic ketamine abusers reveal decreased gray matter volume in a number of cortical and subcortical regions,10 raising the question of whether, under certain conditions, high-frequency dosing of ketamine poses possible neurotoxic, rather than neuroprotective, effects. Note also that existing trials of intravenous (IV) ketamine in major depression generally focus on a dose of 0.5 mg/kg, with less known about the safety and efficacy of higher doses; it is hard to draw inferences about cognitive effects (either good or bad) from higher parenteral doses, or from variable oral doses taken by substance use disorder populations. Further complicating matters is the reality that most observational studies of patients who chronically abuse ketamine often include individuals who also use other illicit psychoactive substances.
Pragmatic questions linger about the cognitive safety of long-term prescribed ketamine or esketamine for depression. Maintenance treatment with intranasal esketamine is standardly prescribed initially twice weekly and ultimately no more often than once or twice a month. In the US Food and Drug Administration registration trials for esketamine in major depression, secondary outcomes involving serial cognitive assessments were performed but have not yet been reported. While Vaccarino et al4 found no evidence of adverse cognitive effects from a single ketamine infusion, multiple infusions (studied only up to 6 infusions over 2 weeks) in major depression patients, or use during ECT, little information exists about long-term frequent infusions—leaving unanswered the question of whether high frequency of administration could be a mediating factor that influences cognitive neutrality versus detriment. For parenteral racemic ketamine, no guideline exists for the use or duration of repeated long-term dosing, even though some practitioners advocate multiple infusions weekly over the course of several weeks.11 The absence of long-term randomized data with IV ketamine limits the ability to anticipate the risk for long-term adverse cognitive effects. An additional pragmatic concern is that some clinicians, again on a purely anecdotal or theoretical basis and with no empirical trials database, sometimes advise the use of compounded oral ketamine lozenges between infusions as a possible strategy to buttress a sustained antidepressant effect. Apart from the low bioavailability of oral ketamine (about 10%–20%),5 existing data to support meaningful antidepressant efficacy are mainly limited to retrospective reports, with none addressing cognitive safety.12
There is presently no guideline on the best management strategy for relapse prevention after an initial response to IV ketamine. No other NMDA antagonist or other pharmacology has shown a clear maintenance effect to sustain euthymia, understandably prompting many clinicians to analogize from the literature on maintenance ECT and advocate repeated maintenance ketamine infusions, following the general dictum of "what gets you well keeps you well." While long-term repeated ketamine infusions are increasingly becoming the norm to prevent relapse after a response in major depression, a formal database is urgently needed to evaluate the safety, efficacy, and optimal dosing frequency of repeated ketamine infusions in order for such well-intended practices to become evidence-based.
In sum, the review by Vaccarino et al4 points out existing gaps in knowledge about the cognitive impact of ketamine in major depression, juxtaposed with potential adverse effects seen in substance abuse or healthy control populations. Their findings remind us of the many unknowns that remain regarding the safety of frequent repeated long-term infusions, the possible mediating effect of changes in depression on changes in cognition, concerns about subpopulations that may be at greater risk for adverse cognitive effects, and the need for properly designed long-term randomized trials focusing on cognition as a primary or coprimary outcome.
Potential conflicts of interest: Dr Goldberg has been a consultant for BioxCel, Intracellular Therapies, Jazz Pharmaceuticals, Lundbeck, Otsuka, Sage Pharmaceuticals, and Sunovion; has been on the speakers bureau for AbbVie, Alkermes, Intracellular Therapies, and Sunovion; and has received royalties from American Psychiatric Publishing, Inc, and Cambridge University Press.
1. Keller AS, Leikauf JE, Holt-Gosselin B, et al. Paying attention to attention in depression. Transl Psychiatry. 2019;9(1):279. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
2. Snyder HR. Major depressive disorder is associated with broad impairments on neuropsychological measures of executive function: a meta-analysis and review. Psychol Bull. 2013;139(1):81–132. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
3. Rosenblat JD, Kakar R, McIntyre RS. The cognitive effects of antidepressants in major depressive disorder: a systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2015;19(2):pyv082. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
4. Vaccarino SR, Adamsahib F, Milev RV, et al. The effects of ketamine on cognition in unipolar and bipolar depression: a systematic review. J Clin Psychiatry. 2021;82(00):21r13870.
5. McIntyre RS, Rosenblat JD, Nemeroff CB, et al. Synthesizing the evidence for ketamine and esketamine in treatment-resistant depression: an international expert opinion on the available evidence and implementation. Am J Psychiatry. 2021;178(5):383–399. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
6. Newport DJ, Carpenter LL, McDonald WM, et al; APA Council of Research Task Force on Novel Biomarkers and Treatments. Ketamine and other NMDA antagonists: early clinical trials and possible mechanisms in depression. Am J Psychiatry. 2015;172(10):950–966. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
7. Abelaira HM, Réus GZ, Neotti MV, et al. The role of mTOR in depression and antidepressant responses. Life Sci. 2014;101(1-2):10–14. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
8. McIntyre RS, Lophaven S, Olsen CK. A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of vortioxetine on cognitive function in depressed adults. Int J Neuropsychopharmacol. 2014;17(10):1557–1567. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
9. Tang WK, Lau CG, Ungvari GS, et al. Recovery of cognitive functioning following abstinence from ketamine. Addict Behav. 2019;99:106081. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
10. Hung CC, Liu Y-H, Huang C-C, et al. Effects of early ketamine exposure on cerebral gray matter volume and functional connectivity. Sci Rep. 2020;10(1):15488. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
11. Sanacora G, Frye MA, McDonald W, et al; American Psychiatric Association (APA) Council of Research Task Force on Novel Biomarkers and Treatments. A consensus statement on the use of ketamine in the treatment of mood disorders. JAMA Psychiatry. 2017;74(4):399–405. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
12. Rosenblat JD, Carvalho AF, Li M, et al. Oral ketamine for depression: a systematic review. J Clin Psychiatry. 2019;80(3):18r12475. PubMed CrossRef	Show Abstract
Clinicians - Graston Technique®
See why Graston Technique® therapy training is the "go-to" training for soft tissue mobilization.
Set a payment schedule that works for you with no interest, no monthly fees, and no early payoff penalty.
Graston Technique® Specialist (GTS) Credential
Now acquire your GTS credential after M2-Advanced training and show the world that you're an IASTM expert.
Welcome U.S. Massage Therapists!
Complete your M2 training and earn your Graston Technique® Specialist (GTS) Credential! LEARN MORE
Fueled by Research Driven By Success
Graston Technique® (GT) therapy is an evidence-based form of instrument-assisted soft tissue mobilization that allows for precise detection and treatment of fascial restrictions as well as muscle and tendon dysfunction. Following the kinetic chain, GT therapy Providers can target and specifically treat affected tissues often resolving issues once thought to be permanent utilizing specifically designed instruments.
The instruments amplify tactile feedback allowing you to feel deeper and more subtly than is possible with your hands alone. The difference is dramatic and you may wonder how you ever performed manual therapy without them.
Our focus is on providing you with the highest quality training and instruments available, enabling you to meet your goals and the goals of your patients.
We'll keep you up-to-date on the latest news, research and clinical insights and provide you with community of like-minded individuals to share advice, solutions, and stories with the collective aim of improving your patient's quality of life.
We'll support you every step of the way. We understand the different needs of our clinicians and are ready to be there when you need us.
While there are many benefits to Graston Technique® therapy from a clinical and therapeutic perspective, these are some of the key benefits you should know about.
More precise and efficient assessment and treatment. The amplified tactile feedback our instruments allows for faster detection and treatment of soft tissue conditions.
Reduce stress on your hands. With the proper technique our instruments become extensions of your hands and can significantly reduce the stress associated with performing manual therapy.
Patient success and quality of life. Research has demonstrated that patients often experience better, faster results when treated with Graston Technique® therapy.
"I can't thank you enough for the excellent course last weekend. I have been using my GT instruments all week and have received very positive feedback from my patients already."
PT | Granite State Physical Therapy
"I have been treating patients with Graston Technique® since 2008 and it has yielded positive results in a variety of pathologies! I just became one of the proud new owners of Dynamic Physical Therapy in Charleston, WV, and we treat patients and athletes with GT daily to supplement their treatment plans. It is a staple in our clinic."
MS, ATC, PES | Dynamic Physical Therapy
"The Graston Technique® has been an excellent component to incorporate in our treatment plans. The dynamic component allows you to treat your athletes in a functional sports specific position to realistically treat their restrictions."
MS, ATC | Georgia Southern University
The importance of proper training when performing Graston Technique® therapy cannot be overstated in our opinion. That's why we cover everything from the basic physiological principles of the technique to the proper use of our instruments and how to apply it to soft tissue injuries.
Basic training introduces clinicians to Graston Technique® therapy, it's clinical applications, physiological effects/benefits and potential contraindications. The course also instructs clinicians on the proper use of the instruments. [12 Hours]
M2-Advanced Training introduces load, movement and adds procedures for assessing musculoskeletal dysfunction while introducing the principles of regional interdependence and 3-D kinetic chain myofascial applications. [14 Hours]
We've partnered with MedBridge Education to offer several online courses with CE credits. Online courses are conducted by Graston Technique® therapy instructors and are based on the suggestions and feedback of training participants at our hands-on trainings. [10.75 Total Hours]
Are you looking for instruments? Run out of emollient? Need a new carrying case?
Would you like to be a preferred provider?
Access online courses, take advantage of professional clinical marketing and design assistance.
The training and instrument costs can be found by entering through Clinician portal off home page, to Training & Education and then Training Fees. The M1 is $650. The M2 is $695. The instruments can be pre-ordered with your M1 training registration at $1795 for the 6pc set; $995 for the 3pc starter set.
No, you are not required to purchase. GT supplies the instruments for the M1 training event. We hope that you will consider purchasing GT instruments, so you can become a GT Provider after the training.
Do I need to bring my instruments to the M2 training?
No, GT provides instruments for the M2 training event.
Latest Clinician Resources
The effects of instrument-assisted soft tissue mobilization compared to other interventions on pain and function: a systematic review.
The Immediate Effects of Graston Technique® on Hamstring Flexibility Compared to a Control
With the guidance of some of the top advisors in the field of massage therapy, we have found the appropriate balance of education and experience that will allow massage therapists to be successful in the application of Graston Technique® therapy. We are excited to welcome you to a family of clinicians who are focused on successful outcomes and patient satisfaction!
The Graston Technique® Specialist (GTS) credential is reserved for our highest-level of training and will help set you apart from the crowd. Upon completion of the M2-Advanced course and the purchase of Graston Technique® instruments, complete a hands-on practical exam and an online exam to earn your GTS credential.
We are prepared Dissertation On Instructional Design For K 12 to Dissertation On Instructional Design For K 12 meet your demands. The geeks are screened based on their resume, qualifications test, and trial assignment. The support managers undergo scenario-based training before day one on the job.
On Campus Ph.D. – Educational Technology
instructional design, development, and implementation of educational interventions. Successful graduates of this specialization are prepared to pursue leadership roles in producing and applying research in instructional design and development. A dissertation in Instructional Design for Online Learning at Capella University can take a
Each concentration path consists of four courses and a dissertation in practice in a concentration-specific format. You will complete your dissertation under the guidance of a faculty member within your concentration. You must have career experience relevant to the concentration to which you apply. Concentrations Educational Psychology Higher Education Administration K-12 Leadership in Urban
Not only will the design be challenging, but the district's budget may be an obstacle of its own. However, with the right approach, a school can be the foundation of a generation. K-12 school districts are emphasizing practical, hands-on experience and personalized learning.
Instructional Systems and Learning Technologies | College
Instructional Technology - NIU - The Graduate School
Instructional Systems and Learning Technologies at Florida State University pioneered the field of instructional design. earned a master's degree in ISLT or a related field are required to take a minimum of 48 credit hours and complete a dissertation. including business, higher education, healthcare, government, military, and K-12
The Graduate Instructional Design Certificate provides graduate students from diverse backgrounds advanced skills in the planning and creation of learning experiences using technology in the classroom, online, and in informal environments. Learning outcomes: Ability to design …
Instructional Design Certificate (IDC) Program – Graduate
Join Judy Steiner-Williams for an in-depth discussion in this video Writing the introduction, part of Writing a Research Paper. Instructional Design K-12 Education LMS it will contain the thesis statement,…that umbrella sentence that tells the reader…the purpose of the research paper.…The reader knows immediately that flexibility
Concentrations | USC Rossier School of Education
(PDF) Instructional Design of K-12 Professional Development
Thesis and Dissertation; 3MT (Three Minute Thesis) Exceptional Student Education K-12 MA. Exceptional Student Education MEd. Health Administration MHA, Executive Health Administration Track Instructional Design and Technology MA, Educational Technology Track. Instructional Design and Technology MA, e-Learning Track. Instructional
. Turnitin provides instructors with the tools to prevent plagiarism, engage students in the writing process, and provide personalized feedback.Title Authors Published Abstract Publication Details; Easy Email Encryption with Easy Key Management John S. Koh, Steven M. Bellovin, Jason NiehIdaho State
Ph.D. in Education - Instructional Design and Technology
The Instructional Technology emphasis is primarily designed for K-12 teachers. The Instructional Design and Development emphasis has a broader focus, and can prepare students for a career in instructional design in education, military, healthcare, business, and other settings.
The Ph.D. in Curriculum and Instruction with an emphasis on Educational Technology is a campus-based program designed to prepare stewards of the discipline (Golde, 2006). These students desire to work as researchers and university faculty and embrace scholarship to address important societal problems and create and disseminate new knowledge, in part, via collaboration between and among
Nov 06, 2018 · Highlights of the Online Ph.D. Program. By earning your Ph.D. in Instructional Design and Technology from an accredited, nonprofit university whose online programs are ranked in …
How A Poorly Maintained And Operating Water Heater Can Cause Legionnaires’ Disease, And How To Avoid It
﻿
Hot Water Service, Repair, Installation & Replacement
Follow Us!
0429361819
Adelaide’s largest Hot Water Supplier, Installer and Repairer - servicing all suburbs with unparalleled service every time
Click here for menu
Home
Services
Same Day Hot Water
Repair Or Replace
Interest Free Installations
Need Boiling Hot Water
Brands
Billi Water Filters
Thermann
Takagi
Chofu
ZIP
Chromagen
Raypak
Aqua MAX
Dux
Warranties
Quantum
Rinnai
Bosch
Rheem
Systems
Electric
Gas
Solar
Heat Pump
Tankless
Locations
Bridgewater, SA
Hahndorf, SA
Uraidla, SA
Stirling, SA
Glenelg, SA
North Adelaide, SA
Norwood, SA
News
FAQ’s
No Interest Finance
About
Contact
$50 Free Fuel
How A Poorly Maintained And Operating Water Heater Can Cause Legionnaires’ Disease, And How To Avoid It
July 25, 2019 by repairwh Leave a Comment
You might have heard about Legionnaires’ disease on the news or in the paper. After all, there have been many stories over the years about air conditioning systems in hotels, office buildings and shopping centres, transmitting this severe form of pneumonia to its patrons and often with severe symptoms!
What many people don’t realise is that Legionnaires’ disease can also be spread through poorly maintained home water heaters. Sound a bit scary? It doesn’t need to be. There are some easy ways to avoid the growth of Legionnaires’ disease in hot water and they don’t involve spending a lot of money or vacating your house.
Firstly, what is Legionnaires’ disease?
Contents
1 Firstly, what is Legionnaires’ disease?
1.1 What are the symptoms of the disease?
2 Why is Legionnaires’ disease a risk for home water heaters?
2.1 How to avoid Legionella in your water heater and protect you and your family
Legionnaires’ disease is a respiratory disease that can cause a type of pneumonia deriving from a bacterium known as Legionella. While Legionnaires’ disease isn’t contagious through person to person contact, you can catch it through inhaling the Legionella bacteria from other sources like poorly maintained air-conditioners, residential hot water systems and swimming pools.
The important thing to know about the Legionella bacteria is that it spreads in water. It multiplies when temperatures are between 20-45°C.The bacteria are dormant below 20°C and can’t survive above 60°C.
What are the symptoms of the disease?
The bacterium also causes Pontiac fever, a milder illness that’s similar to the flu. Legionnaires’ disease usually develops two to ten days after being exposed to the bacteria. Symptoms include fever, gastrointestinal issues, chest pain, shortness of breath and even confusion. Legionnaires’ disease is not usually fatal if caught early and can be treated with antibiotics. If you display these symptoms and think you might have been exposed, you should go to your doctor straight away. The earlier it’s caught, the easier it is to treat and less likely there will be any complications.
While anyone can develop Legionnaires’ disease, some are more at risk, depending on a number of factors. The older you are, the more likely you are to catch the disease. If you’re a smoker, alcoholic or have existing illness such as cancer, diabetes, chronic respiratory or kidney disease where your immune system is weakened, your chances of becoming infected multiplied. For people at high risk, prompt
treatment is critical.
Why is Legionnaires’ disease a risk for home water heaters?
While many people associate the disease with commercial environments, in a home setting, people can get sick by inhaling droplets of Legionnaires’ disease in hot water from the infected tank while showering. Less commonly, you can get sick through aspiration of drinking water containing the bacteria if the water accidentally goes into the lungs while drinking.
How to avoid Legionella in your water heater and protect you and your family
1. Keep your water heater set to a minimum of 60°C to prevent the growth of Legionnaires’ disease in hot water
Your plumber will know to set up your system to run at 60°C when your heater is installed. We recommend you to leave the temperature gauge as it was set by your plumber, just to be safe. And don’t worry about scalding. Tempering or mixing valves are used to prevent injury by adding in cold water – but only after the hot water leaves your tank. Plumbers will set the valve to deliver water at 50°C to your hot water tap.
2. Don’t turn your hot water heater off or turn the temperature down – ever!
Turning the temperature down on your hot water tank to reduce costs should be avoided as it can create the perfect conditions for the bacteria to grow. When going on holidays, some people might also turn off their water heater to save costs. This should also be avoided for the same reasons.
3. Flush your systems once a year to rid systems of build-up and debris
Sediment can collect at the bottom of a neglected hot water tank. This can also be a breeding ground for the Legionella bacteria. A properly maintained tank can also help prolong your water heater’s life and prevent malfunctions.
4. Stagnant water favours Legionella bacteria growth
To reduce this risk, you should flush out infrequently used outlets regularly and clean and de-scale your showerheads a few times a year. If possible, removing dead legs/dead ends in pipework will also avoid stagnant water which can harbour the Legionella bacteria.
5. Consider continuous flow hot water heaters
Another solution is to install a continuous flow water heater. As these systems are tankless, there is nowhere for the Legionella bacteria to grow and multiply. These systems also never run out of hot water – another bonus!
Preventative maintenance is something Hot Water Specialists specialise in. Get in touch today if you would like information on how to ensure your hot water system is maintained and operating as it should be.
