Barnard College The Basics About Barnard College Barnard College is a private institution that was founded in 1889. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,417, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 4 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar.  Barnard College's ranking in the 2011 edition of Best Colleges is National Liberal Arts Colleges, 26. Its tuition and fees are $40,546.
Barnard occupies a really unique place in the world of American colleges.  On one hand, it's a small, private liberal arts school for women but on the other hand we have access to all the resources of a large Ivy League school - namely Columbia.  So it is both a small school and a large one, both single-sex and co-ed.  We have complete cross-registration privileges, which is amazing, but Barnard professors really are more approachable.  And Barnard is full of amazing traditions.  Possibly the best is the Midnight Breakfast: at midnight before exams begin, the entire school crowds into the gym and professors and deans and famous alumnae serve us breakfast.  Similarly, each spring we have a Spirit Day which shows just how phenomenal Barnard spirit is and how proud we are of where we go to school.  And being in New York City can only be considered a plus.  We're on the Upper West Side, and the neighborhood - Morningside Heights - almost feels like a mini college town.  But a ten minute ride on the 1 train brings you full stop into the middle of the city.  So you can get away from all that insanity when it's just too much, but it's also amazing to be so close to everything that New York offers.
Okay...so I'll write about my college town, New York City...    First of all, you'll never, ever be bored. New York is the most incredible and exciting place to be. Morningside Heights, which is the area Barnard's in, is calm and far from the hustle and bustle of midtown. It's a nice area with lots of great restaurants, book stores, and other little fun shops. The campus, however, is right next to the subway, so if you want the fast-paced city experience, in 30 minutes you'll be downtown. I can't even begin to count the amount of incredible experiences I've had in New York...but to name a few: walking across the Brooklyn Bridge at sunset, going swing dancing in a club downtown with my friends, getting orchestra seat tickets to Avenue Q, Phantom of the Opera, and the Drowsy Chaperone through CAO, eating gourmet peanut butter and jelly sandwiches near NYU, exploring the huge number of incredible museums of New York, interning at an art gallery in Chelsea...and so so many more. There's definitely a lot to see and do on both the Columbia and Barnard campuses, but the city also offers incredible experiences that you'll never forget.
Copyright © 2011 U.S. News & World Report, L.P. All rights reserved.
Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy.