setting
Candicate Sentence: Case Western Reserve University Case Western Reserve University The Basics About Case Western Reserve University Case Western Reserve University is a private institution that was founded in 1826. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,228, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 155 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar.  Case Western Reserve University's ranking in the 2011 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 41
Candicate Sentence: Its tuition and fees are $37,648.
i enjoy the size of the school overall  when i tell people that i go to case, they think that i am automatically smart   more people need to go to the sporting events (especially the female sports)  i spend most of my time either at class or in my dorm...i also spend time at the dining halls, exercising, and in other people's rooms Case is the perfect size for a university.  Throughout my four years here I can honestly say I have met most of the people in my class


academic_calendar
Candicate Sentence: Case Western Reserve University Case Western Reserve University The Basics About Case Western Reserve University Case Western Reserve University is a private institution that was founded in 1826. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 4,228, its setting is urban, and the campus size is 155 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar.  Case Western Reserve University's ranking in the 2011 edition of Best Colleges is National Universities, 41
Candicate Sentence: Case is an unusual school because the students are so intelligent, but they are not only focused on the academics like most Ivy leagues schools are.  Students here are very spirited and very involved in on-campus and off-campus activities.  We are the perfect mix between and Ivy league school and a state school. Four years later I still remember my orientation and PlayFair.  I remember how nervous I felt moving in with complete strangers and how comfortable Case made me feel the first few days I was here
