Assumption College The Basics About Assumption College Assumption College is a private institution that was founded in 1904. It has a total undergraduate enrollment of 2,117, its setting is suburban, and the campus size is 185 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar.  Assumption College's ranking in the 2011 edition of Best Colleges is Regional Universities (North), 36. Its tuition and fees are $31,305.
The theoretical knowledge from the classroom is enhanced by practical application in internships and service learning opportunities. Students gain professional experience and explore their career choices at local, national and international internship sites in a variety of settings. Service learning classes specifically coordinate experiences with nonprofit agencies and organizations so that student can integrate what they are learning in class with a practical application that benefits the broader community.
Some Assumption students choose to spend a semester or year abroad as part of their undergraduate education. Our students have studied in Australia, Chile, China, Costa Rica, England, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Japan, and Spain, among other locations. Assumption College???s highly selective Honors Program enables outstanding students to immerse themselves in their individual academic interest/major in creative and personal ways.
There is a culture of mentorship within the Assumption community that helps each individual develop a personal compass and find his or her path in life. This is reflected in the co-curricular life of the college.  Students participate in more than 60 clubs and organizations that enable them to explore their different interests.  Students join academically focused groups, arts and entertainment, media, student government, service organizations, sports and spiritual program initiatives.
Assumption is a member of the Northeast-10 Conference and fields 23 intercollegiate sports teams for men and women. There are also many club and intramural sports programs for students to enjoy. It is a college that encourages students to balance their intellectual, social, spiritual and physical dimensions.
At Assumption, 90 percent of the undergraduates live on campus all four years and on-campus housing is guaranteed. The beautiful, 185-acre campus is in a residential section of Worcester, just a short distance from downtown. Worcester, the second-largest city in New England, is a vibrant college town that is home to 30,000 students. There are numerous opportunities for entertainment, internships, and community service. Great restaurants, cultural venues, retail options, and professional sports teams provide students with many off-campus activities. Worcester is centrally located, with Boston, Providence, and Hartford, about an hour???s drive away. There are seven trains to Boston daily.
Assumption and 12 other colleges and universities in the region created the Colleges of Worcester Consortium to offer their students even greater academic and social opportunities. Assumption students may cross-register for academic credit at any of the participating colleges and enjoy social and cultural events at those institutions. Free transportation is available to a number of them.
Finding the truth about oneself and the nature of the world means learning not only how to ask questions, but also how to find the answers. Assumption College is founded on the premise that the educational experience we provide will help students in that pursuit. Assumption graduates are known for their critical thinking, engaged citizenship and compassionate service.
Copyright © 2011 U.S. News & World Report, L.P. All rights reserved.
Use of this Web site constitutes acceptance of our Terms and Conditions of Use and Privacy Policy.